# Development of fragility curves for railway embankment and ballast scour due to overtopping flood flow
> **Source**: `Development of fragility curves for railway embankment and ballast scour due to overtopping flood flow.pdf`
> **Pages**: 18

---

## Page 1

Nat. Hazards Earth Syst. Sci., 16, 2455–2472, 2016 www.nat-hazards-earth-syst-sci.net/16/2455/2016/ doi:10.5194/nhess-16-2455-2016 © Author(s) 2016. CC Attribution 3.0 License. Development of fragility curves for railway embankment and ballast scour due to overtopping ﬂood ﬂow Ryota Tsubaki1, Jeremy David Bricker2, Koji Ichii3, and Yoshihisa Kawahara3 1Department of Civil Engineering, Nagoya University, Furo-cho, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya 464-8603, Aichi, Japan 2Delft University of Technology, Civil Engineering and Geosciences, P.O. Box 5048, 2600 GA Delft, the Netherlands 3Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Hiroshima University, Kagamiyama 1-4-1, Higashi-hiroshima 739-8527, Hiroshima, Japan Correspondence to: Ryota Tsubaki (rtsubaki@civil.nagoya-u.ac.jp) Received: 13 May 2016 – Published in Nat. Hazards Earth Syst. Sci. Discuss.: 31 May 2016 Revised: 26 September 2016 – Accepted: 30 October 2016 – Published: 29 November 2016 Abstract. Fragility curves evaluating a risk of railway em- bankment ﬁll and track ballast scour were developed. To de- velop fragility curves, two well-documented events of single- track railway washout during ﬂoods in Japan were investi- gated. Type of damage to the railway was categorized into no damage, ballast scour, and embankment scour, in or- der of damage severity. Railway overtopping water depth for each event was estimated based on well-documented hydrologic and hydraulic analyses. Normal and log-normal fragility curves were developed based on damage probability derived from ﬁeld records and the estimated overtopping wa- ter depth. A combined ballast and embankment scour model was validated by comparing the results of previous studies and the spatial distribution of railway damage type records. 1 Introduction 1.1 Vulnerability of railways to ﬂoods Railway lines consist of components including tracks, power supply, and signaling infrastructure (Railway Technical Re- search Institute, 2007), all of which can suffer damage during river ﬂoods, hurricane storm surge, and tsunamis (e.g., Japan Railway Civil Engineering Association, 2000–2011), lead- ing to interruption of transportation service (see Fig. 1 for two examples of damage due to surge in the USA). The most common mechanism of track damage occurs when tracks are overtopped by ﬂoodwaters, leading to scouring of the ballast and/or the embankment ﬁll upon which the rail tracks are built (e.g., Brammer, 1990; Dawson et al., 2005). Even when only a short section of track is washed out, the entire railway system can experience serious delays or malfunction due to a ripple effect on the dispatch of engines and cars until the damaged section is repaired (Hong et al., 2015). Since railcars (except those specialized for steep slopes like cable cars or rack railways) cannot handle steep gra- dients in topography, railways are often built in areas of mild slopes, such as rivers, ﬂoodplains, and coasts. Due to this, railway damage is a common occurrence during ﬂood (e.g., Changnon, 2009; Kaneko, 2010; Polemio and Lollino, 2011; Tsubaki et al., 2012a) and storm surge (e.g., Steers et al., 1979; Bunya et al., 2010) events. Furthermore, rail- ways utilize many bridges, which are often built with low clearance over waterways in order to minimize construc- tion time, cost, and track slope. Many examples exist of such bridges collapsing during large river ﬂood and tsunami events (e.g., Wardhana and Hadipriono, 2003; Reed, 2004; Kaneko, 2010). As such, railways are seen to exhibit signiﬁcant vulnerabil- ity when tracks are inundated or overtopped. Climate change projections show that in some locations, the frequency and intensity of river ﬂood and storm surge events will increase (IPCC, 2014), further exacerbating risk to railway damage due to overtopping and inundation (Dawson et al., 2016). Predictive evaluation of railway damage due to ﬂood is es- sential for concrete assessment of socioeconomic impact of large ﬂood events. In Japan, rapid population decline (Matanle, 2014; Cabi- net Ofﬁce, Government of Japan, 2016) is another factor ex- Published by Copernicus Publications on behalf of the European Geosciences Union.

## Page 2

2456 R. Tsubaki et al.: Fragility curves for railway embankment scour due to overtopping ﬂood ﬂow Figure 1. Railway ballast scour failures: (a) New Jersey Transit tracks in New Jersey, USA, after Hurricane Sandy in 2012; (b) CSX railroad tracks in Mississippi, USA, after Hurricane Katrina in 2005 (photo credits: New Jersey Transit, a). acerbating risk to railways in many regions, as the amount of money available for maintenance and upgrade of these railways is shrinking together with the amount of customers and goods they serve to transport (Ministry of Land, Infras- tructure, Transport and Tourism, 2015). Therefore, in order to prevent the need for expensive repairs after damage dur- ing future events, it is essential to evaluate which sections of railways are most vulnerable to washout during ﬂoods and to strengthen these sections before damage occurs. 1.2 Current technological state of estimation of railway vulnerability and research need As discussed above, estimating the risk of railway damage due to ﬂood is important subject to clearly understand the impact of large ﬂood events but our knowledge about quanti- tative risk of railway damage is quite limited. As an example of this lack of knowledge, we would like to review the treat- ment of railway damage due to ﬂood in a software package HAZUS (Federal Emergency Management Agency, 2010a). This software package is developed for estimating poten- tial losses caused by earthquakes, ﬂoods and hurricanes and widely used in the USA. Within the framework of HAZUS, a railway system consists of railway track/embankments, bridges, tunnels, stations, and other facilities (Federal Emer- gency Management Agency, 2010b, c). Table 1 summa- rizes the items accounted for in the ﬂood sub-model in HAZUS-MH and corresponding valuation of these items (Scawthorn et al., 2006; Federal Emergency Management Agency, 2010c). In HAZUS, damage to railway tracks due to earthquakes is evaluated based on permanent ground defor- mation (Federal Emergency Management Agency, 2010a, 7– 25), and the damage functions developed for major roads are adopted for damage estimation for railway tracks/roadbeds due to earthquake (Federal Emergency Management Agency, 2010a, 7–32). However, there is no guideline to estimate damage to railway tracks due to ﬂoods or hurricanes in the HAZUS framework. There have been several attempts to establish seismic failure prediction of railway compo- nents (e.g., Argyroudis and Kaynia, 2014) and river embank- ments (e.g., Hata et al., 2015), and river embankment failure due to overtopping (e.g., Dawson et al., 2005; Apel et al., 2009); however, railway track/embankment fragility due to ﬂood overtopping is not yet implemented in practice (Fed- eral Emergency Management Agency, 2010b). Hong et al. (2015) pointed out that development of the fragility model for railway embankment scour using detailed data collected from the ﬁeld is a key challenge. Fundamental research on the processes responsible for railway embankment failure during ﬂoods has recently begun. For example, Polemio and Lollino (2011) reported a case of seepage failure of a railway embankment. Tsubaki et al. (2012b) experimentally investi- gated the onset and evolution of ballast scour. Floods interact with and are controlled by the presence of embankments. There are even many locations in which trans- portation embankments serve as de facto river and coastal levees (e.g., Brammer, 1990; Dawson et al., 2005; Ueda and Nakatsuka, 2014). In such a location, if a ﬂood causes an embankment scour, the ﬂood will spread to previously pro- tected areas. Therefore, in evaluating the risk of damage due to a railway embankment scour, it is important to evaluate the effect of that breach on the spread of the ﬂood itself. Predict- ing the location of the railway embankment having signiﬁ- cant potential to scour is essential to precisely evaluate the effect of the embankment scouring on the ﬂood propagation during catastrophic ﬂood events. 1.3 Possible types of railway failure due to ﬂooding To predict the probability of railway failure, the process of the failure should be speciﬁed. This paper focuses on fragility estimation of railway track/embankment scour due to overtopping. Even though railway embankments are ge- Nat. Hazards Earth Syst. Sci., 16, 2455–2472, 2016 www.nat-hazards-earth-syst-sci.net/16/2455/2016/

## Page 3

R. Tsubaki et al.: Fragility curves for railway embankment scour due to overtopping ﬂood ﬂow 2457 ometrically similar to roadway embankments and levees, the structures atop railway embankments are very different from those atop these other embankments, as are the mech- anisms by which overtopping can cause damage. As Fig. 2 shows, ﬂoods can cause damage to railway embankments via three processes: (a) scour of ballast induced by overtop- ping, (b) scour of both ballast and embankment ﬁll by over- topping, and (c) piping/seepage failure of embankment ﬁll. Though piping/seepage failure of ﬁll is more likely to oc- cur in high (and wide) embankments, most railway embank- ments are relatively low, and most observed railway embank- ment failures appear to have been the result of overtopping- induced scour of embankment ﬁll and/or ballast (Kaneko, 2010; Tsubaki et al., 2012a; Onoda and Hayano, 2015). Bal- last scour is a damage mode unique to railway embankments. In the cases of ballast scour only, repair of the ballast layer is relatively straightforward, but in cases of embankment ﬁll scour, repairs can be costly and take a long time. Repair of damage to an embankment is less expensive than repair of damage to bridges and other facilities (see Table 1), but bal- last and embankment damage occurs much more frequently than bridge damage. Furthermore, river ﬂoods or tsunamis large enough to damage bridges usually also cause extensive ﬂooding which leads very long sections of an embankment to wash out (e.g., Shimozono and Sato, 2016). Therefore, the development of fragility curves for scour of railway ballast and embankments is crucial for the assessment of railway vulnerability and resilience. 1.4 Fragility curve concept and its application to railway failure due to ﬂooding In this study, the fragility curve concept (e.g., Shinozuka et al., 2000) is used to estimate the damage occurrence on railway ballast and embankment due to ﬂood. Fragility curves are widely used to evaluate the vulnerability of struc- tures in terms of probability. This approach was initially ap- plied for seismic damage to bridges and other structures (Shi- nozuka et al., 2000; Ichii, 2002; Hata et al., 2015), and appli- cation to water-related hazards has followed (e.g., Hall et al., 2003 for national-scale ﬂood risk assessment; Vorogushyn et al., 2009 for embankment piping failure; Suppasri et al., 2011 for building damage due to tsunami). Dawson et al. (2005) and Apel et al. (2009) utilized the fragility curve con- cept to estimate expected damage on river embankments due to overtopping. The damage probability of an embankment is dependent on the soil properties; these properties are highly variable in space and have large uncertainty (e.g., Apel et al., 2004; Dawson et al., 2005) though this uncertainty was ac- counted for in the shape of fragility curves in those studies. Railway embankment failures are also dependent on the soil properties. Ballast scour is, however, expected to have less variability in failure probability because the ballast material, embankment ﬁll material, shape of embankment, rails, and sleepers are highly standardized in the industry, and their (b) Embankment scour (a) Ballast scour (c) Embankment seepage Flow→ Figure 2. Railway embankment damage types. Table 1. Railway system classiﬁcations of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (2010b). Occupancy HAZUS valuation in thousands of USD Railway tracks (per km) 1500 Railway bridge 5000 (concrete, steel, wood, and unknown types) Railway tunnel 10 000 Railway urban station 2000 (concrete, steel, wood, and brick made) Railway fuel facility 3000 (tanks) Railway dispatch facility 3000 (equip) Railway maintenance facility 2800 (concrete, steel, wood, and brick made) www.nat-hazards-earth-syst-sci.net/16/2455/2016/ Nat. Hazards Earth Syst. Sci., 16, 2455–2472, 2016

## Page 4

2458 R. Tsubaki et al.: Fragility curves for railway embankment scour due to overtopping ﬂood ﬂow Figure 3. Relationship between processes and data within the structure of this paper. condition is subject to frequent inspection and maintenance (e.g., Railway Technical Research Institute, 2007). So we can expect that the spatial variation in ballast failure criteria is substantially uniform compared with failure of non-railway embankments. 1.5 Focus of this study: the ﬁrst development of fragility curves for railway embankment and ballast scour This paper investigates the conditions responsible for scour of embankment ﬁll and track ballast for single-track, unelec- triﬁed railways; these types of damage are quite common in rural areas where the level of ﬂood protection is relatively limited. The fragility curves for this kind of railway embank- ment are developed based on two well-documented rail track washout events during recent ﬂoods in Japan. Figure 3 shows the relationship between the processes and data used in this study. The two ﬂood events for which damage records exist, as well as the estimated ﬂow rates in the river networks during these events, are described in Sect. 2. Section 3 is devoted to the methods used in this study. Fragility curves are introduced in Sect. 3.1. Railway damage recorded for the two ﬂood events is described in Sect. 3.2. The method of hydraulic analysis and uncertainty in the esti- mated water depth are both described in Sect. 3.3. Based on the results of Sects. 3.2 and 3.3, the fragility curves are de- veloped in Sect. 4. Discussions including the comparison be- tween the estimated damage probability and recorded dam- age types are reported in Sect. 5. Section 6 highlights the conclusions of this study. 2 Target events In this section, two ﬂood events and their accompanying rail- way scour damage are described. These two events were se- lected because of ready availability of existing information about meteorological conditions, hydrological and hydraulic analyses of the precipitation–run-off–ﬂood process, and doc- umentation of the railway damages. The two railway lines damaged during these events were both single-track, unelec- triﬁed railways. 2.1 Asa River ﬂood of July 2010 In June 2010, a large ﬂood occurred along section M (see Fig. 4) of the Asa River and caused inundation of homes and a factory, as well as washout of a railway embank- ment (Yamasaki et al., 2010; Tsubaki et al., 2014). The left-hand map in Fig. 4 outlines the watershed upstream of section M of the Asa River in red, while the watershed of the entire reach of the Asa River is outlined in orange. A storage function model, with parameters calibrated to previ- ous major events, was used to calculate an event-dependent model parameter Rsa (a saturation criterion to start runoff), which was determined via best ﬁt to the discharge hydro- graph measured at the Asa Bridge gauge station (location in- dicated in the left panel of Fig. 4) based on four error criteria (Ube Construction Ofﬁce, 2012). The estimated maximum ﬂow rate in the Asa River was 811 m3 s−1 (Ube Construc- tion Ofﬁce, 2012), while the inﬂow from the Zuiko River was 110 m3 s−1. Though it is possible that the peak ﬂow in each river would reach their conﬂuence at slightly differ- ent times, the same hydrologic model showed that the maxi- mum ﬂow at a point 3 km downstream of the conﬂuence was Nat. Hazards Earth Syst. Sci., 16, 2455–2472, 2016 www.nat-hazards-earth-syst-sci.net/16/2455/2016/

## Page 5

R. Tsubaki et al.: Fragility curves for railway embankment scour due to overtopping ﬂood ﬂow 2459 -91  600 -91  400 -91  200 -91  000 11 400 -211  200 -211  000 -210  800 -210  600 -210  400 -210  2 00 -210   000 -209   800 200 m ←Outflow boundary Section of railway       →  embankment breach → Mine rail-line 6 0 6 3 km     Route 316 Inflow boundary （Zuiko River） ↓ Watershed of Asa River Watershed upstream of M 1000 0 Legend River network Elevation (m) ↓Zuiko River Asa River→ Boundary of calculation mesh → ←Inflow boundary (Asa River) ← Water level trace 1 ← Water level trace 2 Asa Bridge gauge station→           Figure 4. Watershed of the Asa River (left) and aerial photo taken in 2011 of section M (right). (Source: National Land Numerical Information download service, Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, Japan, for digital elevation model, watersheds, and river network.) 967 m3 s−1. This ﬂow rate closely matches the peak ﬂow rate of 957 m3 s−1 which was estimated from high water marks measured in the ﬁeld. This implies the estimated ﬂow rate is reasonable and the maximum ﬂow rates of the Asa River and the Zuiko River converged almost simultaneously since no major tributaries exist between the conﬂuence of the two rivers and this measurement point. Accordingly, ﬂow rates of 811 m3 s−1 for the Asa River and 110 m3 s−1 for the Zuiko River are adopted as steady inﬂow boundary conditions for the hydraulic model of section M. 2.2 Sayo River ﬂood of August 2009 On 8–11 August 2009, Typhoon Etau generated record rain- fall over the mid-west region of Japan including Sayo Town, Hyogo Prefecture. The previous 24 h record rainfall in Sayo Town had been 187 mm, but Typhoon Etau set a new record at 327 mm. This caused record ﬂooding in the Chikusa River, the watershed of which includes Sayo Town and much of western Hyogo Prefecture, resulting in a large number of ca- sualties, as well as extensive damage to river and slope pro- tection works (Tsubaki et al., 2012a). Figure 5 (left panel) illustrates the watershed upstream of section S of the Sayo River, together with that of its primary river, the Chikusa River. Figure 5 (right panel) depicts the domain in which the hydraulic ﬂood model was evaluated. A rainfall–runoff simulation was conducted for the Sayo River basin upstream of the Enkouji gauge station (location indi- cated in the left panel of Fig. 5) (Tsubaki et al., 2012a; Fujita et al., 2014). A 50 m resolution distributed model that simu- lates both rainfall–runoff processes from mountainous slopes and ﬂood routing in river channels based on the kinematic wave equations (Tachikawa et al., 2006; Sayama et al., 2010) was used to estimate the runoff during the event. The equa- tions applied to the mountainous slopes were the lateral com- ponents of unsaturated and saturated subsurface and surface ﬂows and the water mass balance equation (Tachikawa et al., 2006; Sayama et al., 2010). The Enkouji gauging station is located 1 km downstream of section S and the observed peak runoff was 1360 m3 s−1. The peak discharge estimated by the model was 1320 m3 s−1. The highest ﬂow rate that passed through here during the August 2009 storm at the upstream boundary in the subdomain depicted in the right panel of Fig. 5 was calculated to be 750 m3 s−1 (Fujita et al., 2014; Tsubaki et al., 2012a). 3 Methods 3.1 Fragility curve In this paper, we use upstream ﬂood water level (overtopping surcharge) as a variable explanatory for railway overtopping failures. As schematically depicted in Fig. 6, under the situ- ation of water overtopping an embankment, critical ﬂow oc- curs on the embankment (C.S. in Fig. 6) and the upstream water level correlates almost directly to the overtopping dis- charge (Chow, 1959; Dawson et al., 2005; Apel et al., 2009). The upstream water has less velocity head and the surface is relatively ﬂat, whereas the overtopping ﬂow atop the em- bankment is rapidly varied ﬂow and quite sensitive to small differences and uncertainty in the local elevation of the em- www.nat-hazards-earth-syst-sci.net/16/2455/2016/ Nat. Hazards Earth Syst. Sci., 16, 2455–2472, 2016

## Page 6

2460 R. Tsubaki et al.: Fragility curves for railway embankment scour due to overtopping ﬂood ﬂow 0 10    5  km -2000 -1000 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 -113 500 -112 500 -111 500 -110 500 -109 500 -108 500 1,100 0 1100 550 m 10 Watershed of Chikusa River Watershed upstream of S 1000 0 Legend River network Elevation (m) Enkouji gauge station→ Figure 5. Watershed of Chikusa River (left) and hydraulic ﬂood model domain in section S of Sayo River (right). (Source: National Land Numerical Information download service, Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, Japan, for digital elevation model, wa- tersheds, and river network and Kinki Regional Development Bureau, Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism Japan for the aerial photo taken in 2010.) Flow→ C.S. (Fr=1) ↓ Sub-critical stagnated flow because of  backwater from C.S.  ↓ ↑ Super-critical drawdown flow regulated by C.S. ↑ Super-critical drawdown flow regulated by C.S. Hydraulic jump ↓ Figure 6. Schematic diagram of one-dimensional ﬂow over em- bankment. C.S. in ﬁgure corresponds to the critical section where the ﬂow is critical. bankment crest. The ﬂow on the lee side of embankment is supercritical and the water level is regulated by the C.S. The local ﬂow rate over the embankment crest estimated by the embankment-resolving ﬁne-resolution inundation simu- lation (e.g., Tsubaki and Kawahara, 2013) has non-negligible uncertainty because of high sensitivity to the embankment shape and height represented by the undulation of the cal- culation grid based on the digital elevation model and land cover data. This is because exchange between kinetic and potential energies is actively occurring in this area (Chow, 1959), leading to a two-dimensionally undulating water sur- face proﬁle and inhomogeneous velocity distribution (Tsub- aki and Kawahara, 2013). For these reasons we use the up- stream water level as a hazard level to explain the probability of railway failure. Accounting for other variables in the design of fragility curves remains a matter of debate. In fact, the time dura- tion of overtopping and turf quality was accounted for to ob- tain fragility curves for a well-managed river embankment in Apel et al. (2004). Their model parameters were determin- istically ﬁtted to the experiment conducted in Hewlett et al. (1987) and the damage probability was not validated to the levee breach records. Properties of ballast, embankment ﬁll, and surface cover of the embankment are regulated in the construction code and regularly inspected and maintained. The two railway lines fo- cused on in this paper are single-track, unelectriﬁed railways running through mountainous regions, which started opera- tion about 90 years ago. In this regard, the material prop- erties of the railways are relatively homogeneous. However, the remaining uncertainties in properties of the embankment are not negligible when deterministically evaluating failure occurrence. This is true for river embankment overtopping as well, so a probabilistic approach has been used for this problem (e.g., Dawson et al., 2005; Apel et al., 2009). In the fragility curve approach, a probabilistic damage function can be expressed by a two-parameter normal distri- bution function (Shinozuka et al., 2000; Suppasri et al., 2012; Mas et al., 2012), P(a) = 8 a −µ σ  , (1) or log-normal distribution function, P(a) = 8 ln(a/c) ζ  , (2) where P () represents the conditional probability of occur- rence for the speciﬁc state of damage; 8 is the normal er- ror function; a represents the hazard level; ln() represents the natural logarithm; µ and σ are the median and standard Nat. Hazards Earth Syst. Sci., 16, 2455–2472, 2016 www.nat-hazards-earth-syst-sci.net/16/2455/2016/

## Page 7

R. Tsubaki et al.: Fragility curves for railway embankment scour due to overtopping ﬂood ﬂow 2461 Figure 7. Example of the photos showing the status of the railway ballast–embankment scour just after the ﬂood. Shooting location and direction of each photo are both plotted in the left orthorectiﬁed aerial photo taken in February 2012 (photo source: M. Kikunaga). deviation of hazard level; and c and ζ are the median and log-standard deviation, respectively (refer to the list of math- ematical notation used in this paper at the end of the Ap- pendix). The deviation parameters σ or ζ represent both un- certainty in hazard level a and variation in fragility among data points (Mander, 1999). The estimation of the two model parameters (median and deviation) is carried out by maxi- mizing the likelihood function. The likelihood function for binary damage (damage/no damage) is L = N Y i=1 h P (ai) ixih 1 −P(ai) i1−xi, (3) where ai is the hazard level (overtopping water depth in this study) of sample number i; xi = 1 or 0 indicates embank- ment scour or no breach, respectively, under the correspond- ing damage type; and N is the total number of samples. 3.2 Railway damage record 3.2.1 Asa River ﬂood of 2010 Locations of ballast and embankment ﬁll scour are deter- mined by investigating photos showing the status of the rail- way ballast–embankment scour just after the ﬂood (see Fig. 7 as an example) and the status after the recovery works (per- sonal communication with the factory and downloaded from the internet) as well as aerial photos of the area obtained in February 2012 and orthorectiﬁed to 0.5 m resolution. The ballast and embankment just after reconstruction differed in color compared with the section not scoured because weath- ering, iron dust due to railway passage, and vegetation cover alter the surface color. 3.2.2 Sayo River ﬂood of 2009 Kaneko (2010) reported ballast and embankment scour dam- age to the railway as a function of kilometer post along the track and our damage map was mainly based on this report. Additionally, site survey data (I. Ario, personal communica- tion, 2009), photos from the internet, and aerial photos, taken in October 2009 (immediately after the ﬂood) and orthorecti- ﬁed in 0.2 m resolution, were utilized to detail damage along the length of the section of railway. 3.3 Estimation of overtopping water stage 3.3.1 Hydraulic model for ﬂood ﬂow simulation (Tsubaki et al., 2012a) The river and ﬂoodplain ﬂows were calculated by solving the shallow water equations. The basic equations solved here are as follows: ∂U ∂t + ∂E ∂x + ∂F ∂y = S, (4) U =  h hu hvT , E =  hu hu2 + 0.5gh2 huv T , F =  hv huv hv2 + 0.5gh2T , S =   qs gh(S0x −Sfx −SHx) gh(S0y −Sfy −SHy)T , (5) where t is the time, x and y are the horizontal coordinates, h is the water depth, u and v are the depth-averaged velocities in the x and y directions, g is the gravitational acceleration, qs is the source water mass due to rainfall, and S0x and S0y www.nat-hazards-earth-syst-sci.net/16/2455/2016/ Nat. Hazards Earth Syst. Sci., 16, 2455–2472, 2016

## Page 8

2462 R. Tsubaki et al.: Fragility curves for railway embankment scour due to overtopping ﬂood ﬂow are the bed slopes in the x and y directions calculated using the ground elevation z as S0x = −∂z ∂x , S0y = −∂z ∂y . (6) Sfx and Sfy are the friction slopes evaluated by using the Manning’s roughness coefﬁcient n as follows: Sfx = n2u √ u2 + v2 h4/3 , Sfy = n2v √ u2 + v2 h4/3 . (7) SHx and SHy are the energy slope due to the bridge with piers. These terms are effective only at the cell interface located in the bridge cross section. SHx = ∂Hb ∂x , SHy = ∂Hb ∂y , (8) where Hb is the energy head relative to loss due to the bridge. The amount of head loss was calculated by using D’Aubuisson’s empirical formula (Chow, 1959; Sakano, 2003; Tsubaki et al., 2012a). The equations were solved by means of the ﬁnite volume method on an unstructured triangular grid. The ﬂux difference scheme was used to evaluate ﬂuxes through the boundaries of each triangular cell. (a) Asa River model Due to the short length of the river reach (2 km) focused on in this study, and the relatively steep riverbed slope (1/240), the ﬂood was evaluated using a steady peak ﬂow simula- tion. The inﬂow rates, based on the hydrologic analysis de- scribed in Sect. 2.1 and validated in Ube Construction Ofﬁce (2012), were used as constant inﬂow boundary conditions for a two-dimensional unsteady ﬂow model. Resolution of the triangular mesh was 2 m in the area of railway embankment ﬁll and 5 m elsewhere. Manning’s n was set to 0.03 m−1/3 s in the river channel and ﬂoodplain (Ube Construction Of- ﬁce, 2012), and 0.1 m−1/3 s in vegetated and built-up areas (Chow, 1959). This river channel roughness equals that used by Yamaguchi Prefecture in historical analyses (Ube Con- struction Ofﬁce, 2012). The downstream boundary condition was water level as determined by Yamaguchi Prefecture’s calculation (Ube Construction Ofﬁce, 2012). Note that the two-dimensional shallow water model with ﬁne calculation grid was reported to be substantially less sensitive to the roughness coefﬁcient (Horritt, 2000; Hor- ritt and Bates, 2002; Tsubaki and Kawahara, 2013) and the roughness coefﬁcient reﬂects more physical basis (Horritt and Bates, 2002) compared with the simpliﬁed models like the 1-D inundation model (e.g., HEC-RAS) or 1-D river model coupled with a simpliﬁed 2-D inundation model (e.g., LISFLOOD-FP). (b) Sayo River model (Tsubaki et al., 2012a) The domain represented in the inundation simulation (Fig. 5, right panel) was about 15 km2 in area. The Sayo River ﬂows through this section, and no major tributaries are present here. Elevation data for the calculation grid were conﬁgured using aerial lidar (light detection and ranging) for the river- side region, and a 50 m grid DEM (digital elevation model) was utilized for the intermountain area. A comparatively small grid size (3 m for the length of a side of a triangle) was used around the river and the railway to represent the details of the topography (Bates et al., 2003; Cobby et al., 2003; Rath and Bajat, 2004). In the mountain area, a larger grid size (40 m in length) was used to reduce computational load. Manning’s roughness parameter n was set to 0.02 m−1/3 s for the riverbed and the ﬂoodplain, 0.1 m−1/3 s for vegetated ar- eas of the river course and ﬂoodplain as well as for residential areas (Chow, 1959), and 0.3 m−1/3 s for mountainous areas. The river channel roughness was determined based on the bed material size (Chow, 1959, p. 206) and the surface cover status. The area covered by trees in the channel was consid- ered vegetated. The discharge estimated by using a hydrological model based on ground rain gauge data (Fujita et al., 2014) was used as the inﬂow boundary condition (Sect. 2.2). The rating curve at the outﬂow cross section was estimated and the ﬂow rate at the outﬂow cross section calculated by the hydrolog- ical model was converted to water stage. The source term in the mass conservation equation (qs in Eq. 5) represents the direct runoff in this area; the observed gross precipitation is multiplied by a runoff ratio of 0.85 to account for the amount of net surface runoff in this area. 3.3.2 Validation of inundation ﬂow models To validate the inundation ﬂow models, calculated results are compared with inundation records. (a) Asa River model Water levels hindcast by the ﬂood simulation are compared with measured water level traces from two locations depicted in the right panel of Fig. 4. Steady ﬂow boundary conditions were used for model inﬂow and outﬂow, though the presence of vortices (circulatory ﬂow) over the ﬂoodplain and near the riverbanks caused a complex velocity ﬁeld and prevented perfectly steady ﬂow from forming (Tsubaki and Kawahara, 2013). Due to these ﬂuctuations, modeled water levels were assessed via both 20 min running averages representing each minute of model output, as well as maximum water levels during these same intervals. Flood elevation trace no. 1, on the inner wall of the factory, was measured to be 25.98 m (in Tokyo datum, hereafter). The average modeled ﬂood el- evation here was 25.79 m, and the maximum modeled ﬂood elevation at this location was 25.90 m. At location no. 2, Nat. Hazards Earth Syst. Sci., 16, 2455–2472, 2016 www.nat-hazards-earth-syst-sci.net/16/2455/2016/

## Page 9

R. Tsubaki et al.: Fragility curves for railway embankment scour due to overtopping ﬂood ﬂow 2463   Legend River Recorded Calculated Calculation domain } Inundated area 0 1000m 500 Figure 8. Comparison of calculated and recorded inundation areas (Tsubaki et al., 2012a). the recorded trace elevation was 25.81 m, model average elevation was 25.61 m, and model maximum elevation was 25.67 m. Modeled average elevation is about 19 cm too low, and maximum elevation is about 11 cm too low, compared to measured trace elevations. (b) Sayo River model As shown in Fig. 8, the calculated inundation area corre- sponds closely to the recorded inundation area based on the ﬁeld survey conducted by Hyogo Prefecture. In Fig. 9, cal- culated and recorded inundation water stages are compared. The calculated water stage is represented by h+z. The mean absolute error is 0.28 m, and the magnitude of the error is smaller than, but comparable to, the magnitude of inundation water depth, 1 m. 3.3.3 Uncertainty in ﬂood water stage According to the benchmarking of a two-dimensional high- resolution (∼2 m grid spacing, lidar topography based) ur- ban ﬂood model reported by Hunter et al. (2008), the uncer- tainty in predicted water level among six hydraulic models was assessed as 0.05 m. This is the same order of RMSE in the terrain data they used and a similar result was reported in Tsubaki and Kawahara (2013), too. The difference between calculated and recorded water stages in our simulation was 0.1 ∼0.3 m, and this is larger than the water level uncertainty estimated by numerical mod- els reported by Hunter et al. (2008). This discrepancy may be related to larger inaccuracy in the lidar data we used due to very uneven terrain and quite a complex surface cover, including rails on the railway embankment and vegetation 80 85 90 95 100 105 80 85 90 95 100 105 Calculated water stage (m) Recorded water stage (m) Figure 9. Comparison of calculated and recorded ﬂood stages in Tokyo datum. The straight line shows the perfect-agreement line, i.e., recorded water stage = calculated water stage (Tsubaki et al., 2012a). cover on the embankment slope. Moreover, there is a dif- ference in the deﬁnitions of calculated and recorded water depths, namely the calculated water depth is a cell-averaged quantity but the recorded water depth denotes the local wa- ter depth around obstacles; this caused an underestimation of the calculated water depth as reported in Sect. 3.3.2a for the Asa River and shown in Fig. 9 for the Sayo River. In summary, the magnitude of uncertainty in ﬂood water stage in this study was non-negligible but inevitable in prac- tice because of the complexity of the topography and uncer- tainty in the topographic data available. The fragility curve concept can account for the uncertainty in the explanatory variable, overtopping water depth in this study. The effect of uncertainty in water level prediction on the fragility curve will be discussed in Sect. 5.3. 4 Results The difference between H and the elevation z of the railway track is overtopping water depth 1h, namely H = z + 1h, and 1h was correlated with the recorded types of damage categorized into “no damage”, “ballast scour”, and “embank- ment scour” in Sect. 3.2, and listed in Tables A2 and A3. Then, fragility curves were developed based on this corre- lation. Both upstream water level H and rail track elevation z are derived from the cell-averaged quantities used in the model described in Sect. 3.3. The elevation of water overtopping the rail tracks was taken as water surface elevation H averaged over a 2 m di- ameter area at a distance of 5 m from the center line of the tracks. For the generation of fragility curves “no dam- age” with no overtopping (1h ≤0) does not directly con- www.nat-hazards-earth-syst-sci.net/16/2455/2016/ Nat. Hazards Earth Syst. Sci., 16, 2455–2472, 2016

## Page 10

2464 R. Tsubaki et al.: Fragility curves for railway embankment scour due to overtopping ﬂood ﬂow 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 Probability Overtopping water depth, Δh (m) Fragility curve (normal) Fragility curve (log) No damage Emb. damage Running average Figure 10. Fragility curves for embankment scour damage de- scribed by normal and log-normal distributions. tribute to determining the coefﬁcients in Eqs. (1) or (2) so the point where neither overtopping was observed nor track dam- age was recorded was excluded. The locations were selected where the model result showed that the tracks were indeed overtopped and the damage types were conﬁdently observed in Sect. 3.2. As such, 10 data points were selected for the Asa River, and 21 data points for the Sayo River. These 31 data points, at which damage type was described in Sect. 3.2 and the overtopping water depth was estimated in Sect. 3.3, were used as samples to ﬁx parameters in the fragility curves (Eqs. 1, 2). Figure 10 displays the fragility curves for the embankment scour using the normal distribution (depicted by the dashed line with log-likelihood ln(L) = −7.3) and the log-normal distribution (the solid line with log-likelihood = −7.9) re- sulting from data points at which either no damage (the num- ber of samples was n = 8) or embankment scour (n = 16) was observed at two ﬂood events. In Fig. 10, open symbols represent individual data points, while ﬁlled ﬁgures repre- sent overtopping water depth and damage data which have been put through a ﬁve-point running average after ordering by overtopping water depth. Though both normal and log- normal distribution models (solid and dashed lines, respec- tively) represent well the trend of damage probability based on the ﬁeld record (ﬁlled circles), the normal distribution has a slightly better ﬁt. Figure 11 shows the fragility curves for the ballast scour using the normal distribution (depicted by the dashed line with log-likelihood = −2.6) and the log-normal distribution (the solid line with log-likelihood = −2.6) resulting from data points at which either no damage (the number of sam- ples was n = 8) or ballast scour (n = 7) were observed during the two ﬂood events. The normal and log-normal curves were almost identical. 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 Probability Overtopping water stage, Δh (m) Bal. only (log) Bal. only (normal) No damage Bal. damage Running average Figure 11. Fragility curves for ballast scour damage described by normal and log-normal distributions. 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 Probability Overtopping water depth, Δh (m) Emb. (log) Bal. only (normal) Bal. and Emb. (log) Figure 12. Fragility curves for ballast scour (Bal. only), embank- ment scour (Emb.), and ballast and embankment scour (Bal. and Emb.) Figure 12 compares the normal fragility curve for ballast scour (dashed line) and a log-normal curve for the combina- tion of ballast scour and embankment scour (thick line, log- likelihood = −8.9). The fragility curve for ballast scour has a larger mean and smaller standard deviation compared with the curve for embankment scour and the curve for combined ballast scour and embankment scour. The damage probabil- ity at medium overtopping water depth 0.2 m < 1h < 0.6 m for the combined ballast and embankment scour is slightly larger than the probability for embankment scour only. Nat. Hazards Earth Syst. Sci., 16, 2455–2472, 2016 www.nat-hazards-earth-syst-sci.net/16/2455/2016/

## Page 11

R. Tsubaki et al.: Fragility curves for railway embankment scour due to overtopping ﬂood ﬂow 2465 5 Discussion 5.1 Consistency in lower limit of damage probability with experimental result Ballast damage is a transitional type of damage, falling be- tween “no damage” and embankment ﬁll scour in its sever- ity. The number of samples with ballast damage available in this study is limited (n = 7) because this type of damage oc- curred in between sections with embankment ﬁll scour and “no damage”. During a full-scale experiment of ballast scour (Tsubaki et al., 2012b), steady scour was observed begin- ning at a ﬂow rate per unit length of qc = 0.045 m2 s−1. Fig- ures 10–12 show overtopping water depth on the x axis, but there is a relation between surcharge water depth and over- topping ﬂow rate as described previously. By adopting the broad-crested weir concept, the overtopping discharge per unit length can be estimated as q = α1h3/2, (9) where α = 2.46 to 3.47 and 1h is the overtopping water depth (Chow, 1959). Using Eq. (9) and α = 2.46, the over- topping water depth is converted to the overtopping ﬂow rate per unit length in Fig. 13. In this ﬁgure, the critical ﬂow rate for ballast scour is depicted as a vertical dashed line. This critical ﬂow rate corresponds well to the initial rise of the log-normal fragility curve for embankment and ballast scour. The agreement of the initial rise of the fragility curve of embankment–ballast scour and critical ﬂow rate to initiate ballast scour indicates that railway overtopping damage be- gins with ballast scour and progresses to embankment scour. This also implies that the critical ﬂow rate for initiation of ballast scour based on the full-scale experiment of ballast scouring conducted by Tsubaki et al. (2012b) can be used as a critical condition for initiation of railway ballast damage in the ﬁeld. The initial rise of the fragility curve of ballast scour had substantially large ﬂow rate compared with the critical ﬂow rate based on the ballast scour experiment. This implies the fragility curves of ballast scour underestimate the damage probability. 5.2 Proﬁle of upper side of fragility curves The largest overtopping ﬂow rate at which no damage was observed at the point s1 (Table A2, 1h = 0.31 m and q = 0.43 m2 s−1) and damage probability for this hazard level was 0.6–0.8 for all developed fragility curves (Figs. 13, 9, 10, 11, 12). The damage probabilities converge to unity for larger hazard level and convergent rate with increase of haz- ard level differs depending on the types of fragility curve. The fastest convergence of the damage probability to unity was observed in the ballast scour model and followed by the ballast and embankment scour model. The embankment scour model showed the slowest convergence to unity. The log-normal models also showed relatively slow convergence 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 Probability Overtopping flow rate, q (m2 s−1) Bal. and Emb. (log) Bal. only (log) Exp. ballast failure Upper limit of no damage record Figure 13. Fragility curve for ballast failure using overtopping ﬂow rate per unit length. The dashed line indicates the experimental bound at which the onset of ballast scour occurs (Tsubaki et al., 2012b). The double line corresponds to the upper limit of the ﬂow condition where no damage was observed. to unity compared with the corresponding normal models. An overtopping ﬂow rate of 0.5 m2 s−1 (corresponding to an overtopping water depth of 0.4 m) is quite an intense ﬂow from the viewpoint of earthen embankment overtop- ping (Apel et al., 2004) and it is very unlikely that no scour will occur during such an intense ﬂow. The damage prob- ability of the ballast scour model was almost unity but the damage probability of the embankment scour model and em- bankment and ballast scour model was about 0.9 and 0.95 for this range (q = 0.5 m2 s−1 and 1h = 0.4 m). Thus, the log-normal models and the embankment scour models may underestimate the damage probability for large hazard level. 5.3 On the deviation of probabilities In Fig. 11, the fragility curve for ballast scour has a median overtopping water depth of 1h = 0.30 m, and its variance σ = 0.035 m is smaller than those of the fragility curves for the embankment scour and combined ballast and embank- ment scour. It must be kept in mind that the lidar topography used in the ﬂood model has an RMSE on the order of 0.1 m, and the uncertainty in hindcast ﬂood levels was on the or- der of 0.2 m, so the standard deviation σ = 0.035 m of the ballast scour model is very small compared with expected uncertainty in the estimated overtopping water level. The ex- periment of Tsubaki et al. (2012b) showed ballast scour to begin at qc = 0.045 m2 s−1, which is an order of magnitude smaller than the median (q = 0.4 m2 s−1) or lower limit (q = 0.25 m2 s−1) of the fragility curve for ballast scour shown in Fig. 13. Therefore, it appears the calculated fragility curve for ballast scour in this study may overestimate the condi- tion experimentally evaluated in Tsubaki et al. (2012b). This www.nat-hazards-earth-syst-sci.net/16/2455/2016/ Nat. Hazards Earth Syst. Sci., 16, 2455–2472, 2016

## Page 12

2466 R. Tsubaki et al.: Fragility curves for railway embankment scour due to overtopping ﬂood ﬂow Figure 14. Estimated damage probability (left) and damage type record (right) at Asa River section M. The yellow symbols in the right map depict data points listed in Table A1. may partially be explained by the fact that the ballast em- bankment in the ﬁeld had been consolidated due to periodi- cal loading by railcars so the actual ballast may have greater resiliency than in the experiment conducted by Tsubaki et al. (2012b). Even so, ballast should be more vulnerable to over- topping scour than embankment ﬁll is, but the fragility curves shown in Fig. 13 did not correspond to such a relation. It is also possible that, in the ﬁeld cases studied, ballast scour at smaller overtopping ﬂow rates always coincided with com- bined ballast and embankment scour, not ballast scour alone. The fragility curve for ballast and embankment scour is the most feasible among the fragility curves developed in this study. Future work is needed to improve the fragility curve for ballast scour by acquiring more sample data points in the ﬁeld and running further hydraulic experiments. 5.4 Validation of railway fragility curve A validation of the combined damage fragility curve, of which feasibility was discussed above, was conducted by comparing its calculated probabilities to the actual damage record. The normal distribution for combined ballast and embankment scour was determined to be the most feasible model based on the discussion in Sects. 5.1–5.3. Via the model, the damage probability along the rail track in the Asa River ﬂoodplain at 10 m intervals was calculated and plotted in Fig. 14 (left). Thirty-one of the data points, used in Sect. 4 and listed in Tables A1 and A2 to obtain the fragility curves, were selected where the damage type record was conﬁdent (e.g., not marginally at the border of two damage types), but a point array at 10 m intervals was used for the validation here. Damage probability in Fig. 14 (left) is calculated without re- gard to the types of failure (ballast or embankment scour), but it is calculated with the fragility curve for ballast and em- bankment scour; however, the actual damage record of the right ﬁgure distinguishes the type of damage. In Fig. 14, there is variability in the calculated result, but the area where the ballast and embankment scours were observed is predicted as a high damage probability area. The points at which no damage was calculated are points at which the ﬂood model calculated either a very shallow overtopping water depth, or no overtopping at all. The railway crest in this section is al- most horizontal. Since the crest of the railway embankment consists of both rail and railway ties (sleepers), the 1 m2 res- olution lidar data cannot resolve this, and the 1.7 m2 trian- gular mesh carries forward this variation, leading to an un- avoidable difference between modeled and actual topogra- phy. Since actual railway crest elevation does not experience spurious variations at 10 m intervals, topography based on lidar data of limited resolution and accuracy might be im- proved by application of a spatial ﬁlter along the railway. Figure 15 shows calculated and observed damage to the railway along the Sayo River. The domain is decomposed into two segments (A and B) in the discussion below. Con- tinuous damage was recorded along a portion of Segment A, and this damage was reproduced well in the fragility curve calculation. In this segment, damage occurred in locations at which relatively steep slopes existed in the railway crest elevation proﬁle (Fig. 16). Since the locations of railway em- bankment overtopping were governed by a longitudinal slope of the railway and large-scale topography in this segment A, the ﬂood model was able to simulate actual overtopping lo- cation and ﬂow rate with higher accuracy, and damage prob- ability resulting from the fragility curve matched recorded damage well. In Segment B, estimated damage probability was high at points that experienced actual damage, but many other points estimated to have high damage probability ex- perienced no actual damage. In regions such as this, where spatially sporadic damage is calculated, fragility curves are still useful for predicting whether damage will occur, but they cannot predict the speciﬁc locations at which the damage should be expected. In this segment, elevation of the railway embankment crest was very smooth, with no steep slopes in Nat. Hazards Earth Syst. Sci., 16, 2455–2472, 2016 www.nat-hazards-earth-syst-sci.net/16/2455/2016/

## Page 13

R. Tsubaki et al.: Fragility curves for railway embankment scour due to overtopping ﬂood ﬂow 2467 Figure 15. Estimated damage probability (top) and damage type record (bottom) at Sayo River section S. The yellow symbols in the bottom ﬁgure depict data points listed in Table A2. (Source: Kinki Regional Development Bureau, Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism Japan for the aerial photo taken in 2010.) crest elevation (Fig. 16). Therefore, the entire segment was overtopped with shallow surcharge. However, small errors in topography at the size of each model grid cell caused large difference in the overtopping water depth, resulting in erro- neous damage probabilities at the 10 m intervals at which damage was assessed. The fragility curve concept can also account for uncertainty in hazard level (overtopping water depth in this paper) by adjusting the deviation parameters σ or ζ in Eq. (1) or (2) (Mander, 1999); in segments within which sporadic damage is predicted, the level of damage can be estimated by averaging the damage predicted for points within the segment. However, the reason damage in Seg- ment B of Fig. 15 was not evaluated as such an average is that the error in grid-scale model topography was too large to just cause variations in overtopping water depth; rather, the error caused many points within the segment to not expe- rience any overtopping at all. Therefore, the model predicted scattered damage for Segment B. A B Bridge Bridge Confluence with Bridge I=1/250 80 85 90 95 100 105 47 48 49 50 51 Elevation (m) Distance (km) Ballast loss Embankment breach River bank elev. Rail embankment elev. Figure 16. Longitudinal proﬁles of railway and riverbank eleva- tion. The cross sections where the river and railway intersect are indicated as “bridge” (Tsubaki et al., 2012a). www.nat-hazards-earth-syst-sci.net/16/2455/2016/ Nat. Hazards Earth Syst. Sci., 16, 2455–2472, 2016

## Page 14

2468 R. Tsubaki et al.: Fragility curves for railway embankment scour due to overtopping ﬂood ﬂow 6 Conclusions This paper shows the signiﬁcance of evaluating the likeli- hood of damage to railway embankments due to overtopping. Fragility curves were developed to relate damage probability to overtopping water depth, itself calculated via the use of a hydraulic ﬂood model. Fragility curves were generated based on recorded observations of railway damage types, simulated overtopping water depth and two types of curves (normal and log-normal distributions). Each fragility curve was val- idated by comparison between modeled damage probability and records of observed damage. The fragility curve for bal- last scour, the damage type expected to be the initial phase to lead the embankment scour, did not match the criteria re- vealed through laboratory experiments of ballast scour and may underestimate actual damage probability. However, the fragility curve for combined ballast and embankment scour represents well the laboratory experiment result for the onset of scour. Field validation of the combined damage fragility curve was carried out by comparing modeled damage prob- ability with recorded damage at two different river sections. At one location, where recorded damage indicated continu- ous railway washout over stretches, fragility curve damage probability agreed with observed damage quite well. In con- trast, the model did not represent well-observed damage in locations of relatively ﬂat and level railway crest, where vari- ations in the simulated overtopping water depth were affected by small errors in the topographic data, resulting in sporadic ﬂood overtopping where no damage existed in reality. Though the fragility curves developed here are useful for estimation of damage probability for single-track non- electriﬁed railway embankments, the limited number of data points used to generate these curves could prevent them from being applicable to a variety of situations. To make these curves more robust, more ﬁeld records in different types of environments are needed. Furthermore, the ﬁt of modeled ballast scour probability to observed ballast damage was un- satisfactory, indicating the necessity for further laboratory experiments and ﬁeld data collection. Whether the developed fragility curves is applicable to railway embankments outside Japan will depend on how closely construction/maintenance standards in the country of application matches the construc- tion standards in Japan. In addition, the role of small errors in the hydraulic ﬂood model result on predicted damage proba- bility has become clear, and the application of spatial ﬁlter- ing to improve model accuracy needs to be investigated in the future. 7 Data availability The collected and processed ﬁeld data are available from the corresponding author. More details about me- teorological, hydrological and hydraulic assessment for Asa River ﬂood and Sayo River ﬂood are available on doi:10.2208/jscejhe.70.I_1441 (Tsubaki et al., 2014, in Japanese) and https://ir.lib.hiroshima-u.ac.jp/ﬁles/public/3/ 39096/20160212131039699174/JHHE_30-1_87.pdf (Tsub- aki et al., 2012a), respectively. Nat. Hazards Earth Syst. Sci., 16, 2455–2472, 2016 www.nat-hazards-earth-syst-sci.net/16/2455/2016/

## Page 15

R. Tsubaki et al.: Fragility curves for railway embankment scour due to overtopping ﬂood ﬂow 2469 Appendix A: Point-wise data used to develop fragility curves Table A1. Point-wise estimated overtopping water depth 1h and damage types for the Asa River ﬂood. In damage types row, emb. is embankment scour, bal. is ballast scour, and no is no damage. Location of each point is indicated in Fig. 14. Point Calc z (m) Calc H (m) 1h (m) Damage types a1 26.89 27.36 0.47 emb. a2 26.94 27.35 0.41 bal. a3 26.94 27.35 0.41 bal. a4 26.90 27.35 0.45 emb. a5 26.99 27.34 0.35 bal. a6 27.00 27.35 0.35 emb. a7 26.94 27.35 0.41 emb. a8 26.90 27.35 0.45 emb. a9 26.91 27.35 0.44 emb. a10 26.93 27.34 0.41 bal. Table A2. Point-wise estimated overtopping water depth 1h and damage types for the Sayo River ﬂood. Location of each point is indicated in Fig. 15. Point Calc z (m) Calc H (m) 1h (m) Damage types s1 95.56 95.88 0.31 no s2 94.96 95.30 0.34 bal. s3 91.55 91.83 0.28 emb. s4 91.12 91.36 0.24 emb. s5 90.85 90.98 0.13 no s6 89.88 90.37 0.49 bal. s7 89.85 90.10 0.25 no s8 87.65 87.93 0.28 bal. s9 87.37 87.94 0.57 emb. s10 85.82 87.27 1.46 emb. s11 86.04 87.35 1.31 emb. s12 86.52 87.31 0.80 emb. s13 86.36 86.48 0.12 emb. s14 86.17 86.21 0.04 no s15 86.24 86.31 0.08 no s16 86.16 86.27 0.12 no s17 82.34 82.55 0.21 no s18 81.87 82.57 0.70 emb. s19 82.31 82.55 0.25 no s20 81.91 82.57 0.66 emb. s21 81.96 82.56 0.60 emb. www.nat-hazards-earth-syst-sci.net/16/2455/2016/ Nat. Hazards Earth Syst. Sci., 16, 2455–2472, 2016

## Page 16

2470 R. Tsubaki et al.: Fragility curves for railway embankment scour due to overtopping ﬂood ﬂow a hazard level and overtopping water depth 1h in this study (m) c median of hazard level a (m) g gravity acceleration (ms−2) h water depth (m) H water level (m) Hb energy head relative to bridge energy loss (m) i slope (–) L likelihood function (–) n Manning’s roughness coefﬁcient (m−1/3 s) P (a) probability of occurrence for the speciﬁc state of damage under the condition of a (–) r rainfall intensity (mmh−1) Rsa saturation criterion to start run (mm) q discharge per unit width (m2 s−1) qs source in water mass representing precipitation (ms−1) S0x, S0y bed slopes in x and y directions (–) Sfx, Sfy friction slopes in x and y directions (–) SHx, SHy energy slopes in x and y directions due to the head loss by the bridge pier (–) t time (s) u, v depth-averaged velocity components correspond to x and y coordinates (ms−1) x, y horizontal coordinates (m) 1h overtopping water depth (m) α coefﬁcient used to correlate overtopping water depth and ﬂow rate (m1/2 s−1) µ median of hazard level a (m) σ standard deviation of hazard level a (m) 8 normal error function ζ log-standard deviation of hazard level a (–) Nat. Hazards Earth Syst. Sci., 16, 2455–2472, 2016 www.nat-hazards-earth-syst-sci.net/16/2455/2016/

## Page 17

R. Tsubaki et al.: Fragility curves for railway embankment scour due to overtopping ﬂood ﬂow 2471 Acknowledgements. The authors thank Martin Judd at New Jersey Transit for providing us information about railway system damage due to storm surge, Seth Guikema at the University of Michigan for providing us information about HAZUS, Koji Asai at Yamaguchi University, Akihiko Nakamura and Kentaro Tomura at Asia Air Survey Co., Ltd., and Hiroyuki Nagano at National Institute of Technology, Gunma College, for their corporation in the Asa River ﬂood study. Ube construction ofﬁce, Yamaguchi Prefecture, provided essential data regarding the Asa River ﬂood. Our study was partially funded by the JSPS-NSF Cooperative Program for Interdisciplinary Joint Research Projects in Hazards and Disasters project entitled “Evolution of Urban Regions in Response to Recurring Disasters”, a grant from the Chugoku Civil Engineering Foundation for Mutual Aid, Japan, and a grant from the Foundation for River and Watershed Environment Management, Japan. Edited by: B. D. Malamud Reviewed by: two anonymous referees References Apel, H., Thieken, A. H., Merz, B., and Blöschl, G.: Flood risk assessment and associated uncertainty, Nat. Hazards Earth Syst. Sci., 4, 295–308, doi:10.5194/nhess-4-295-2004, 2004. Apel, H., Merz, B., and Thieken, A.: Inﬂuence of dike breaches on ﬂood frequency estimation, Comput. Geosci., 35, 907–923, doi:10.1016/j.cageo.2007.11.003, 2009. Argyroudis, S. and Kaynia, A. M.: Fragility Functions of Highway and Railway Infrastructure, Springer Netherlands, Dordrecht, 299–326, doi:10.1007/978-94-007-7872-6_10, 2014. Bates, P. D., Marks, K. J., and Horritt, M. S.: Optimal use of high- resolution topographic data in ﬂood inundation models, Hydrol. Process., 17, 537–557, doi:10.1002/hyp.1113, 2003. Brammer, H.: Floods in Bangladesh: II. Flood Mitigation and Envi- ronmental Aspects, Geogr. J., 156, 158–165, 1990. Bunya, S., Dietrich, J. C., Westerink, J. J., Ebersole, B. A., Smith, J. M., Atkinson, J. H., Jensen, R., Resio, D. T., Luettich, R. A., Dawson, C., Cardone, V. J., Cox, A. T., Powell, M. D., Wes- terink, H. J., and Roberts, H. J.: A High-Resolution Coupled Riverine Flow, Tide, Wind, Wind Wave, and Storm Surge Model for Southern Louisiana and Mississippi. Part I: Model De- velopment and Validation, Mon. Weather Rev., 138, 345–377, doi:10.1175/2009MWR2906.1, 2010. Cabinet Ofﬁce, Government of Japan: White paper on elderly soci- ety, Cabinet Ofﬁce, Government of Japan, 2016 (in Japanese). Changnon, S. A.: Impacts of the 2008 ﬂoods on railroads in Illinois and adjacent states, Transactions of the Illinois State Academy of Science, 102, 181–191, 2009. Chow, V. T.: Open channel hydraulics, McGraw-Hill Book Com- pany, Inc; New York, reprinted by Blackburn Press, 1959. Cobby, D. M., Mason, D. C., Horritt, M. S., and Bates, P. D.: Two- dimensional hydraulic ﬂood modelling using a ﬁnite-element mesh decomposed according to vegetation and topographic fea- tures derived from airborne scanning laser altimetry, Hydrol. Pro- cess., 17, 1979–2000, doi:10.1002/hyp.1201, 2003. Dawson, D., Shaw, J., and Gehrels, W. R.: Sea-level rise impacts on transport infrastructure: The notorious case of the coastal rail- way line at Dawlish, England, J. Transp. Geogr., 51, 97–109, doi:10.1016/j.jtrangeo.2015.11.009, 2016. Dawson, R., Hall, J., Sayers, P., Bates, P., and Rosu, C.: Sampling- based ﬂood risk analysis for ﬂuvial dike systems, Stoch. Env. Res. Risk A., 19, 388–402, 2005. Federal Emergency Management Agency: Earthquake model, Hazus(R)-MH MR5 technical manual, Federal Emergency Man- agement Agency, Washington, D.C., USA, 2010a. Federal Emergency Management Agency: Flood model, Hazus(R)- MH MR5 technical manual, Federal Emergency Management Agency, Washington, D.C., USA, 2010b. Federal Emergency Management Agency: Hurricane model, Hazus(R)-MH MR5 technical manual, Federal Emergency Man- agement Agency, Washington, D.C., USA, 2010c. Fujita, I., Ito, T., and Sayama, T.: Inundation analysis of the 2009 Chikusa River ﬂood and comparison of evacua- tion criteria, Journal of Flood Risk Management, 7, 54–64, doi:10.1111/jfr3.12020, 2014. Hall, J. W., Dawson, R. J., Sayers, P. B., Rosu, C., Chatter- ton, J. B., and Deakin, R.: A methodology for national-scale ﬂood risk assessment, P. I. Civil Eng.-Water, 156, 235–247, doi:10.1680/wame.2003.156.3.235, 2003. Hata, Y., Sakai, H., Shizuma, T., Nozu, A., Ichii, K., and Maruyama, Y.: Evaluation of fragility curve on trafﬁc function of river dike based on strong motion estimation considering empiri- cal site ampliﬁcation and phase effects – The case of the Na- tuse River dike for the past large scale earthquakes –, Journal of Japan Society of Civil Engineers, Ser. A1 (Structural Engi- neering & Earthquake Engineering (SE/EE)), 71, I_894–I_914, doi:10.2208/jscejseee.71.I_894, 2015 (in Japanese). Hewlett, H., Boorman, L. A., and Bramley, L.: Design of reinforced grass waterways, Construction Industry Research and Informa- tion Association, London, UK, 1987. Hong, L., Ouyang, M., Peeta, S., He, X., and Yan, Y.: Vul- nerability assessment and mitigation for the Chinese railway system under ﬂoods, Reliab. Eng. Syst. Safe., 137, 58–68, doi:10.1016/j.ress.2014.12.013, 2015. Horritt, M. S.: Calibration of a two-dimensional ﬁnite element ﬂood ﬂow model using satellite radar imagery, Water Resour. Res., 36, 3279–3291, doi:10.1029/2000WR900206, 2000. Horritt, M. S. and Bates, P. D.: Evaluation of 1D and 2D numerical models for predicting river ﬂood inundation, J. Hydrol., 268, 87– 99, doi:10.1016/S0022-1694(02)00121-X, 2002. Hunter, N. M., Bates, P. D., Neelz, S., Pender, G., Villanueva, I., Wright, N. G., Liang, D., Falconer, R. A., Lin, B., Waller, S., Crossley, A. J., and Mason, D. C.: Benchmarking 2D hydraulic models for urban ﬂooding, P. I. Civil Eng.-Wat. M., 161, 13–30, 2008. Ichii, K.: A seismic risk assessment procedure for gravity type quay walls, Structural engineering/Earthquake engineering, 19, 131s– 140s, doi:10.2208/jsceseee.19.131s, 2002. IPCC: Climate Change 2014: Synthesis Report, Contribution of Working Groups I, II and III to the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, edited by: Core Writing Team, Pachauri, R. K., and Meyer, L. A., IPCC, Geneva, Switzerland, 151 pp., 2014. Japan Railway Civil Engineering Association: Yearly summary of railway damages, Journal of Japan Railway Civil Engineering Association, 6, 2000–2011 (in Japanese). Kaneko, Y.: The damages to the railway of the Kishin line between Kyutoku station to Mimasakadoi station due to the typhoon Etau, www.nat-hazards-earth-syst-sci.net/16/2455/2016/ Nat. Hazards Earth Syst. Sci., 16, 2455–2472, 2016

## Page 18

2472 R. Tsubaki et al.: Fragility curves for railway embankment scour due to overtopping ﬂood ﬂow Journal of Japan Railway Civil Engineering Association, 6, 450– 451, 2010 (in Japanese). Mander, J. B.: Fragility curve development for assessing the seis- mic vulnerability of highway bridges, Multidisciplinary Center for Earthquake Engineering Research (MCEER), University at Buffalo, State University of New York, New York, USA, 1999. Mas, E., Koshimura, S., Suppasri, A., Matsuoka, M., Matsuyama, M., Yoshii, T., Jimenez, C., Yamazaki, F., and Imamura, F.: De- veloping Tsunami fragility curves using remote sensing and sur- vey data of the 2010 Chilean Tsunami in Dichato, Nat. Hazards Earth Syst. Sci., 12, 2689–2697, doi:10.5194/nhess-12-2689- 2012, 2012. Matanle, P.: Ageing and Depopulation in Japan: Understanding the Consequences for East and Southeast Asia in the 21st Century, in: East Asia in 2013: A Region in Transition, White Rose East Asia Centre and Foreign and Commonwealth Ofﬁce Brieﬁng Pa- pers, edited by: Dobson, H., Shefﬁeld, UK, 30–35, 2014. Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism: White pa- per on transport policy, Ministry of land, infrastructure, transport and tourism, Tokyo, Japan, 2015. Onoda, H. and Hayano, K.: SPH simulation of railroad ballast bed slope collapse under inundation ﬂow, Journal of Japan Society of Civil Engineers, Ser. E1 (Pavement Engineering), 71, 97–107, doi:10.2208/jscejpe.71.97, 2015 (in Japanese). Polemio, M. and Lollino, P.: Failure of infrastructure embank- ments induced by ﬂooding and seepage: a neglected source of hazard, Nat. Hazards Earth Syst. Sci., 11, 3383–3396, doi:10.5194/nhess-11-3383-2011, 2011. Railway Technical Research Institute: Standards for railway infras- tructure, earthen structures, Maruzen Co. Ltd., Tokyo, Japan, 2007 (in Japanese). Rath, S. and Bajat, B.: Between sensing, forecasting and risk as- sessment: An integrated method to model high resolution data for ﬂoodplain representations in hydrodynamic simulations, in: Proceedings of the 1st Goettingen Remote Sensing Days, edited by: Erasmi, S., Cyffka, B., and Kappas, M., Goettingen, 7–8 Oc- tober 2004. Reed, D. W.: A review of British railway bridge ﬂood failures, Hy- drology: Science & Practice for the 21st Century, 1, 210–216, 2004. Sakano, A.: Hydraulic study on accumulation of drifting wood at a bridge during a ﬂood, Technical note of National Institute for Land and Infrastructure Management, Ibaraki, Japan, 2003. Sayama, K., Kobayashi, K., and Takara, K.: The hydrological anal- ysis of the ﬂood due to the typhoon Etau, Technical report on the damage due to the typhoon Etau, Japan Society of Civil Engi- neers, 2010. Scawthorn, C., Flores, P., Blais, N., Seligson, H., Tate, E., Chang, S., Mifﬂin, E., Thomas, W., Murphy, J., Jones, C., and Lawrence, M.: HAZUS-MH Flood Loss Estimation Methodology. II. Dam- age and Loss Assessment, Natural Hazards Review, 7, 72–81, doi:10.1061/(ASCE)1527-6988(2006)7:2(72), 2006. Shimozono, T. and Sato, S.: Coastal vulnerability analysis during tsunami-induced levee overﬂow and breaching by a high-resolution ﬂood model, Coast. Eng., 107, 116–126, doi:10.1016/j.coastaleng.2015.10.007, 2016. Shinozuka, M., Feng, M. Q., Lee, J., and Naganuma, T.: Statistical Analysis of Fragility Curves, J. Eng. Mech.-ASCE, 126, 1224– 1231, 2000. Steers, J. A., Stoddart, D. R., Bayliss-Smith, T. P., Spencer, T., and Durbidge, P. M.: The Storm Surge of 11 January 1978 on the East Coast of England, Geogr. J., 145, 192–205, 1979. Suppasri, A., Koshimura, S., and Imamura, F.: Developing tsunami fragility curves based on the satellite remote sensing and the nu- merical modeling of the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami in Thailand, Nat. Hazards Earth Syst. Sci., 11, 173–189, doi:10.5194/nhess- 11-173-2011, 2011. Suppasri, A., Mas, E., Koshimura, S., Imai, K., Harada, K., and Imamura, F.: Dveloping tsunami fragility curves from the surveyed data of the 2011 great east Japan tsunami in Sendai and Ishinomaki plains, Coast. Eng. J., 54, 1250008, doi:10.1142/S0578563412500088, 2012. Tachikawa, Y., Shrestha, R., and Sayama, T.: Flood prediction in Japan and the need for guidelines for ﬂood runoff modelling in predictions in ungauged basins, in: International perspectives on the state of the art and pathways forward, IAHS Publ. 301, 78– 86, 2006. Tsubaki, R. and Kawahara, Y.: The uncertainty of local ﬂow parameters during inundation ﬂow over complex to- pographies with elevation errors, J. Hydrol., 486, 71–87, doi:10.1016/j.jhydrol.2013.01.042, 2013. Tsubaki, R., Kawahara, Y., Sayama, T., and Fujita, I.: Anal- ysis of geomorphic and hydraulic conditions causing railway embankment breach due to inundation ﬂow, Jour- nal of Hydroscience and Hydraulic Engineering, 30, 87–99, https://ir.lib.hiroshima-u.ac.jp/ﬁles/public/3/39096/ 20160212131039699174/JHHE_30-1_87.pdf, 2012a. Tsubaki, R., Kawahara, Y., and Ueda, Y.: An experimental study on railway embankment breach and its critical ﬂow condition, in: 18th Congress of the Asia and Paciﬁc Division of the IAHR, Jeju, Korea, IAHR, 19–23 August 2012b. Tsubaki, R., Asai, K., Nakamura, A., Tomura, K., Kawahara, Y., and Nagano, H.: Inundation ﬂow in moutanious village in Asa River basin during 2010 July torrential rainfall event, Journal of Japan Society of Civil Engineers, Ser. B1 (Hydraulic Engineer- ing), 70, I_1441–I_1446, doi:10.2208/jscejhe.70.I_1441, 2014 (in Japanese). Ube Construction Ofﬁce: Report of design work on the construc- tion section 1 of the disaster prevention work for Asa River, Ya- maguchi Prefecture, Japan, 2012. Ueda, N. and Nakatsuka, H.: The circumstances and the effect of synthetic submersion-under-water damage mitigation measures (Second Dike etc.) in Hijikawa (East Ozu Area), River (Kasen), Japan River Association, 70, 24–27, 2014 (in Japanese). Vorogushyn, S., Merz, B., and Apel, H.: Development of dike fragility curves for piping and micro-instability breach mechanisms, Nat. Hazards Earth Syst. Sci., 9, 1383–1401, doi:10.5194/nhess-9-1383-2009, 2009. Wardhana, K. and Hadipriono, F. C.: Analysis of Recent Bridge Failures in the United States, J. Perform. Constr. Fac., 17, 144– 150, doi:10.1061/(ASCE)0887-3828(2003)17:3(144), 2003. Yamasaki, T., Yamamoto, H., Tateishi, Y., Harada, Y., Takayama, N., Yoshikoshi, H., and Iwaya, K.: Characteristics of heavy rain- fall and water hazard in Yamaguchi on July 15, 2010, Journal of Japan Society for Natural Disaster Science, 29, 413–425, 2010 (in Japanese). Nat. Hazards Earth Syst. Sci., 16, 2455–2472, 2016 www.nat-hazards-earth-syst-sci.net/16/2455/2016/
