# Integrated representation of geospatial data  model  and knowledge for digital twin railway
> **Source**: `Integrated representation of geospatial data  model  and knowledge for digital twin railway.pdf`
> **Pages**: 20

---

## Page 1

International Journal of Digital Earth ISSN: 1753-8947 (Print) 1753-8955 (Online) Journal homepage: www.tandfonline.com/journals/tjde20 Integrated representation of geospatial data, model, and knowledge for digital twin railway Hankan Li, Qing Zhu, Liguo Zhang, Yulin Ding, Yongxin Guo, Haoyu Wu, Qiang Wang, Runfang Zhou, Mingwei Liu & Yan Zhou To cite this article: Hankan Li, Qing Zhu, Liguo Zhang, Yulin Ding, Yongxin Guo, Haoyu Wu, Qiang Wang, Runfang Zhou, Mingwei Liu & Yan Zhou (2022) Integrated representation of geospatial data, model, and knowledge for digital twin railway, International Journal of Digital Earth, 15:1, 1657-1675, DOI: 10.1080/17538947.2022.2127949 To link to this article:  https://doi.org/10.1080/17538947.2022.2127949 © 2022 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group Published online: 27 Sep 2022. Submit your article to this journal  Article views: 3972 View related articles  View Crossmark data Citing articles: 21 View citing articles  Full Terms & Conditions of access and use can be found at https://www.tandfonline.com/action/journalInformation?journalCode=tjde20

## Page 2

RESEARCH ARTICLE Integrated representation of geospatial data, model, and knowledge for digital twin railway Hankan Lia, Qing Zhua, Liguo Zhanga, Yulin Dinga, Yongxin Guoa, Haoyu Wua, Qiang Wangb, Runfang Zhoub, Mingwei Liua and Yan Zhouc,d aFaculty of Geosciences and Environmental Engineering, Southwest Jiaotong University, Chengdu, China; bFaculty of Geomatics, Lanzhou Jiaotong University, Lanzhou, People’s Republic of China; cSchool of Resources and Environment, University of Electric Science and Technology of China, Chengdu, People’s Republic of China; dThe Key Laboratory of Urban Land Resources Monitoring and Simulation, Ministry of Natural Resources, Shenzhen, People’s Republic of China ABSTRACT The real-time accurate description of all spatial features of railway and their spatiotemporal relationships is a crucial factor in realizing comprehensive management and related decision-making within the entire life cycle of railways. Nevertheless, available spatiotemporal data models mainly use static historical sequence data, which are insuﬃcient to support multi-source heterogeneous real-time sensed data; they lack a systematic depiction of the interactive relationships among multiple feature entities, and are limited to low-level descriptive analysis. Therefore, this study proposes a data-model-knowledge integrated representation data model for a digital twin railway, which explicitly describes the spatiotemporal, and interaction relationships among railway features through a conceptual knowledge graph. This study ﬁrst analyzes the characteristics of railway features from above ground to underground, and then constructs a conceptual model to clearly describe the complex relationships among railway features. Secondly, a logical model is developed to illustrate the basic data structure. Thirdly, an ontology model is constructed as a basic framework for further deepening the domain knowledge graph. Finally, considering the prevention of landslides as an example, it demonstrates the abundant spatiotemporal relationships among railway related features. The results of this study bring more clear understanding of the complex interactive relationships of railway entities. ARTICLE HISTORY Received 25 May 2022 Accepted 15 August 2022 KEYWORDS Digital twin railway; data- model-knowledge; spatiotemporal relationships 1. Introduction Due to the characteristics of linear engineering, railway project, especially mega railway engineer- ing, which has a large-scale spatial span and in the face of complicated and changeable physical environments, such as harsh climatic conditions in high-altitude areas, steep terrain in mountai- nous areas, and complex geological conditions. Under the combined eﬀects of these unfavorable factors, it is bound to considerably increase the diﬃculty of comprehensive management of the entire life cycle of a railway project. However, the traditional approach of data ﬂow and exchange among diﬀerent related systems of railway engineering is still mainly based on two-dimensional (2D) data (such as map and plan), which is ineﬃcient; each department updates and maintains © 2022 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group This is an Open Access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/), which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. CONTACT Qing Zhu zhuqing@swjtu.edu.cn INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF DIGITAL EARTH 2022, VOL. 15, NO. 1, 1657–1675 https://doi.org/10.1080/17538947.2022.2127949

## Page 3

data independently, which makes railway spatial information scattered and diﬃcult to share. Mean- while, the in-depth fusion analysis may lead to the duplication of spatial information systems. The lack of internal connections among systems is another signiﬁcant obstacle to achieving eﬃcient and comprehensive management of railway engineering from a design to construction then to operation and maintenance from a macro perspective. To improve the safety, quality, and eﬃciency of increasingly complex railway engineering pro- jects throughout the entire life-cycle, utilizing a new generation of computer technology, geographi- cal information system (GIS), building information modeling (BIM), and artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) technology to accomplish digitized and intelligent railways has become a trend of modern railway worldwide, such as the European Railway Traﬃc Management System (ERTMS) (Jabri et al. 2010). The very nature of digital twin railway is the digital representation of railway related features (per- sonnel, machine, material, method, and environment) and their dynamic processes, the features can be determined according to diﬀerent stages (design, construction, and operation) of the entire life- cycle of railway and corresponding practical requirements. It gathers various related multiscale/ multiphysics information, aiming to represent the physical entities and their surrounding environ- ments with minimal diﬀerences, analyzes the past and predicts the future in the digital space to improve the real-time behavior of interested physical objects, which contributes to various wider applications such as aid decision making and risk assessment (Tao et al. 2018; Tomiyama et al. 2019; Zhu et al. 2022). Most railway projects experience a constant and simultaneous stream of pro- jects at varying stages of completion (Elliot 2019), from transportation infrastructure to facilities (tunnel construction, bridge construction, stations, and so on). It includes a series of human engin- eering activities such as tunnel drilling, blasting, excavation, and ﬁlling. As the project progresses, the geographical environment, geological condition and construction equipment/facility will change dynamically, for example, the change in the position of the TBM (tunnel boring machine) with the progress of tunnel construction and the diﬀerent types of construction methods and equip- ment used in diﬀerent geographical and geological environments. Therefore, statically expressing the state of railway engineering and its environment within a certain period can no longer meet the real-time management requirements of modern railway under complex engineering conditions (Körner, Michael, and Wrobel 2012; Apputhurai and Stephenson 2013). As shown in Figure 1, by deﬁning the total feature and its interactive relationships, connecting with real-time data gathered from various sensors and the Internet of Things (IoT) and setting up the relationships among ‘data- model-knowledge,’ the digital twin railway is capable of reﬂecting the entire life cycle of the railway at diﬀerent scales, from the stage of design, construction to operation management; providing eﬃcient and intelligent management for various scenes (surface/subsurface; indoor/outdoor); and conducting multi-level tasks such as state description, problem diagnosis, process prediction, and aid decision-making on diﬀerent scales (national, local, and site scales). The precondition to accomplish such functions of a digital twin railway is a spatiotemporal data model that can eﬃcien- tly and accurately represent the behavior of multi-granularity objects in three-dimensional (3D) railway space and their interaction relationships under a uniﬁed time–space framework. However, as shown in Figure 2, the survey, design, and construction of railway engineering involves massive multi-source/multi-granularity railway space information data. For instance, from the specialized point of view of geology, it mainly includes basic geology, engineering geology, advance geological forecast, hydrogeology, geophysics, geochemistry, and geological disaster data. The initial data of the survey and design involve proﬁle, drilling data, geophysical exploration and monitoring data, process data such as laboratory experimentation, comprehensive evaluation and analysis, as well as result data such as result record and implementation plan. From the perspective of data type, it includes structured data (such as 3D model, vector/raster data, and EXCEL\CVS) and unstructured data (such as blueprints, documents, and pictures); from the perspective of data level, it includes small, medium, and large scales, that is, low- to high-precision geological data. As diﬀerent railway project departments use diﬀerent systems to manage data related to their speciﬁc workﬂows and facility assets, data exist in a variety of forms such as CAD (Computer 1658 H. LI ET AL.

## Page 4

Aided Design), BIM, GIS, engineering models, tables, databases, documents, real-time and histori- cal networked data streams, images, and point clouds, and data are constantly changing, making it especially diﬃcult to obtain the right information at the right time. Furthermore, with the rapid development of IoT and sensor technology in recent years, 3D com- prehensive detection and dynamic observation technology have been widely applied and have been Figure 1. The basic principles of Digital Twin railway. Figure 2. Multi-source data of Digital Twin railway. INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF DIGITAL EARTH 1659

## Page 5

used to continuously obtain the structure, shape, appearance, and other physical and functional attribute information (Aggarwal 2011; Li 2009). However, it not only provides multi-source dynamic monitoring data with increasingly higher spatiotemporal resolutions but also leads to mas- sive information with the characteristics of multi-source heterogeneous, cross-scale, multi-modal, complex temporal, and spatial correlations among features above and below the ground, which require a higher ability to perceive, process, and analyze the dynamic changes of complex geogra- phy, geology, and other related features (Yuan and Hornsby 2011; Torrens 2009). In addition, eﬃciently utilizing captured real-time information with minimum cost and reﬂecting physical changes in the digital twin railway is another issue (Stoter, Arroyo Ohori, and Noardo 2021). Thus, structuring data and enabling its use across the entire life cycle remain a major challenge (Erkoyuncu et al. 2020). Compared with natural resource integrated representation of uniﬁed management and planning (Ding et al. 2022), the circumstances of railway projects are more complicated owing to the multi- tudinous features of its surrounding environment with dynamic changes following the construction process, meaning more complex relationships among features. Therefore, this study proposes a digital twin railway spatiotemporal data model represented by data model knowledge to support the uniﬁed expression and management of features and their spatiotemporal relationships. This model analyzes important features of railway space and their spatiotemporal relationships by apply- ing semantics, multi-scale, and mechanism models to form the foundation of integrated expression of multi-source heterogeneous railway space information data, and then presents a logical model to demonstrate a framework of basic data storage structure. The relationships among features are demonstrated by a conceptual knowledge graph, and those containing specialized knowledge is described through mechanism models. In addition, an ontology model of railway space features is constructed for an in-depth study on domain knowledge graphs to depict more detailed, compli- cated relationships among features. A case study on landslide prevention and control is presented to verify the validity of the modeling method. This study presents an integrated data-model-knowledge representation data model for storing and managing digital twin railway information data. Section 2 reviews the related work on spatio- temporal data models. In Section 3, a conceptual model of railway entities is proposed regarding the semantic, scale, and data model–knowledge aspects. Section 4 designs a logical model to illus- trate a data storage framework for massive digital twin railway information data, in addition, a digital twin railway space feature ontology model is established to act as a headstone to support the construction of diﬀerent ﬁeld knowledge graphs to explicitly represent complex relationships among railway space features. Section 5 demonstrates the use of the ontology model to construct a knowledge graph of the landslides. Finally, Section 6 concludes the study and discusses potential future work. 2. State of the art Spatiotemporal data are a combination of time, space, and attributes and are the three basic elements that reﬂect the state and evolution process of railway entities. Early spatiotemporal data models mainly included the sequence snapshot model, ground state correction model, spatiotem- poral cube model, and spatiotemporal complex model. The spatiotemporal data model based on ‘snapshot’ is a widely used type and is directly related to concepts such as timestamps and time scales (Worboys 2005), which represent spatiotemporal processes through a series of snapshots of time segments, a ‘snapshot’ represents the spatiotemporal changes that occur in a certain area at a certain point in time. The process of spatiotemporal evolution is expressed through state layers corresponding to diﬀerent times in vector or raster snapshots. This method can be described by comparing state information at diﬀerent times. The state changes of an entity at two points on the time axis support a simple temporal-information query. However, this method does not express a single entity and cannot handle complex spatiotemporal relationships. At the same time, it 1660 H. LI ET AL.

## Page 6

indiscriminately stores undiﬀerentiated features. With an increase in snapshots, a signiﬁcant amount of redundancy will be generated. To solve the redundancy problem, a ground-state correc- tion model is proposed, which only stores the data state (ground state) at a certain point in time and the amount of change relative to the ground state, that is, the changed data will only be stored when the state of the entity object changes. Another problem with this method is that, if a certain state in the past with a large time span needs to be retrieved, it is required to traverse nearly the entire data- base, resulting in low eﬃciency. Owing to the use of snapshot views, it is still diﬃcult to deal with the spatial relationships among entities. To make up for the deﬁciency of the model using the snapshot principle, the researchers use geometric solid graphics to represent the development and change of 2D graphics along the time dimension, express the evolution of the plane position of the physical world over time, and mark the time on the spatial coordinate points. Thus, it expresses temporal semantics more clearly (Kraak 2003), but its disadvantage is that as the amount of data increases, the operations on the cube will become more and more complex and eventually cannot be processed (Bach et al. 2017). The object-oriented spatiotemporal data model establishes the aggregation of spatial, temporal, and attribute features centered on geographic entities, introduces the concept of objects and classes, transfers the perspective of state changes from the whole to each spatiotemporal object, and has a hierarchical relationship, that is, complex objects can be composed of simple objects, and complex spatiotemporal objects can be decomposed into simple objects (Beard 2006). After considering the object as the core of the research, many types of changes are classiﬁed by the object. For example, the three changes in the temporal characteristics of an object and the diﬀerences in the geometric structure (point, curve, surface, and solid) of the spatial charac- teristics were combined, and the spatial and temporal changes were combined. Summarized into 12 types, and from the perspective of changes in geometry, topology, and properties of geographic entities, there are 8 possible types of changes that a single spatiotemporal object can experience (Pelekis et al. 2004). Object-oriented methods can express spatial changes and attribute changes of geographic entities at the same time and can express spatial and temporal topological relation- ships (Huang and Peng 2008; Camossi, Bertolotto, and Bertino 2006). To improve the query and retrieval eﬃciency of the system and provide richer spatiotemporal semantics and dynamic expression capabilities, related research focuses on spatiotemporal variation and multi-scale spatiotemporal features. Representative models include event-based spatiotemporal data models and process-oriented spatiotemporal data models. The event-based spatiotemporal data model regards each state change of a spatial region as an event and uses the event sequence on the one-dimensional time axis to represent the spatiotemporal process (Yuan 2001; Beard 2006). However, entity objects and their changes cannot be described because they are based on a description of the grid position. Although its modiﬁed model has improved data query eﬃciency and spatiotemporal inversion ability, it still lacks correlation among events (Zheng, Li, and Wei 2006; Xia, Li, and Shao 2007). The process-oriented spatiotemporal data model provides richer spatiotemporal semantics and a complete dynamic expression framework (Xue et al. 2010), but due to its complex modeling methods, there are few successful application cases. The studies on spatiotemporal data models in the past 10 years are more inclined to the design and appli- cation of models in a speciﬁc ﬁeld, such as deﬁning the 3D geometric multi-level structure of buildings and thematic semantics describing the relationship between real estate objects and property rights. The semantics-based 3D dynamic hierarchical house property model (Zhu and Hu 2010) expresses the dynamic replacement of property rights of 3D buildings, but this model is highly specialized and lacks applicability to other ﬁelds. In general, the existing spatiotemporal data model has been continuously developed and improved, but there are still major limitations in the explicit expression of time, space, attribute, and their complex associations. It is especially obvious in the complex scene of multi-feature types of railway space. Because the spatiotemporal relationship among physical features cannot INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF DIGITAL EARTH 1661

## Page 7

be fully reﬂected, multi-scale and multi-source heterogeneous data cannot be eﬃciently inte- grated and managed, which makes it diﬃcult to accurately map the entire railway space in a vir- tual space. 3. Conceptual model To describe the geometry, scale, topology, attributes, behavior characteristics, and interaction relations of the multi-granularity features of a digital twin railway under a uniﬁed spatiotem- poral framework, a spatiotemporal data model of geospatial data, model, and knowledge inte- grated representation for a digital twin railway was established. As shown in Figure 3, the model is constructed from ﬁve levels: semantic layer, multi-scale representation layer, geometric data layer, knowledge layer, and model layer: (1) Semantic layer expands and integrates relevant entities of railway space to form a thematic semantics of seven major feature types (geography, geology, meteorology, facility, disaster, ecology, and personnel) and represents high-level seman- tic information among features through temporal and spatial relationships and interaction relationships; (2) Multi-scale representation layer represents the railway entities form multiple levels of detail to meet the application requirements of diﬀerent levels; (3) Geometric data layer realizes the uniﬁed expression of the geometric model of the railway space entity features by the combination of point, curve, surface, and solid; (4) Knowledge layer establishes domain knowledge graphs, such as geological hazard knowledge graphs, engineering safety, and quality knowledge graphs; (5) Model layer integrates the mechanism models of diﬀerent application scenarios, such as the debris ﬂow initiate model used for debris ﬂow warning, to form a model base. Figure 3. The conceptual model of ‘data-model-knowledge’ integrated representation. 1662 H. LI ET AL.

## Page 8

3.1. Semantic layer The semantic layer is composed of two parts: the classiﬁcation system of digital twin railway space features and spatiotemporal relationships, including spatial, temporal, and interactive relationships. The intricate relationships among railway space features are depicted by spatiotemporal relation- ships during the entire life cycle of the digital twin railway. As data are precisely mapped with the feature classiﬁcation system, this layer can extract the required data and then supports various in-depth applications of digital twin railways. 3.1.1. The classiﬁcation of railway features According to the practical requirements of the entire life-cycle of railway, the classiﬁcation system for features of digital twin railways includes the following seven typical feature types: . Geographical features describe the complex topography and landform and related geographical features in a wide area along the railway, mainly including the water system, topography and landform, and traﬃc. . Geological features, according to the types of data obtained by railway engineering surveys, including stratum and rock mass/belt, geological structure, hydrogeology, regional geological survey features, engineering geology, and geophysics. . Meteorological features provide important information for the monitoring and early warning of geological disasters such as landslides, mudslides, and rockfalls in mountainous areas, including data acquired from meteorological dynamic monitoring and weather forecasts, such as tempera- ture, air pressure, wind speed, wind direction, precipitation, and visibility. . Disaster features, covering natural disasters and accidents, such as various typical mountain geological disasters and safety accidents during construction and operation, match the results of geological disaster monitoring and early warning systems or other security tasks. . Facilities features, matching and mapping with engineering feature models, BIM models, and so on, including tracks, subgrades, bridges, culverts, tunnels, stations, and other features. . Ecological features and environmental protection are signiﬁcant aspects of railway engineering; minimizing the damage to the ecological environment in the process of design, planning, and construction requires a lot of simulation analysis and evaluation; therefore, it mainly includes the ecological environment, wetlands, wild animal and plant features, boundaries, and related features. . Personnel features mainly cover decision-making and management personnel of various func- tional departments as well as personnel perception information for construction personnel, including personnel position information and health information. The railway feature classiﬁcation framework is foundation of the design of conceptual model and ontology model. It initially determines the scope of each independent domain, the basic types of features and their superclass/subclass relationships. Since the superclasses of features are ﬁrstly determined, the classiﬁcation system can be further expanded through a top-down approach. By sorting out the signiﬁcant features of the digital twin railway and then analyzing the semantic associations among the features, the main relationship network framework of the major categories of features can be constructed, as shown in Figure 4. 3.1.2. Spatiotemporal relationships As shown in Table 1, the correlation can describe the spatiotemporal relationships among railway features. Its function is to organize the spatial information data of digital twin railways in an orderly manner, form a correlation network among various information resources, and fully exploit the data characteristics and their interrelationships to facilitate the eﬃcient use and management of information resources. INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF DIGITAL EARTH 1663

## Page 9

3.1.2.1. Spatial relationship. A spatial relationship is the description of the topology, structure, and measurement of the railway spatial feature entity. It is applied to describe the relative position relationship among railway spatial elements, such as lakes, rivers, strata, rock masses, and facilities, and is used to analyze the possible results of various features, such as geological disasters under speciﬁc spatial location conditions: (1) Topological relationship is spatial relationships among point, line, and surface, such as adjacency, inclusion, connectivity, coverage, and separation (e.g. geological body includes a tunnel); (2) Structure relationship, the arrangement and combination of features in space; and (3) Measurement relationship (scale relationship), relative to the quali- tative description of the topological relationship, which is used to quantitatively express the distance among point, line, and surface in space. 3.1.2.2. Time relationships. Time relationships include events, processes, and changes. In the pro- cess of spatiotemporal evolution, the state of a certain physical object can be changed under certain conditions; after reaching a certain threshold value, such a change generates an event; if a series of events are arranged in an orderly manner, a spatiotemporal evolution process can be formed. In addition, by understanding the external representation and internal relationship of the Figure 4. Basic relationships of railway space features 1664 H. LI ET AL.

## Page 10

spatiotemporal evolution process, the behavioral characteristics of the features are extracted and applied to determine the adopted mechanism model through the characteristic factors and form the precise assimilation of the data and the mechanism model. 3.1.2.3. Interaction relationship. Interaction relationships include coupling relationships and chain inﬂuences. It is a uniﬁed representation of the mutual feedback relationship of the railway space features. Furthermore, it can be represented as the spatiotemporal evolution process of complex man-made phenomena and natural phenomena. This was also the basis for building a knowledge graph. 3.2. Multi-scale representation layer From the macro- to the micro-scale, digital twin railways gather diﬀerent scales of information from multiple sources. The one-size-ﬁts-all property as universally assigned to digital twin railways does not suﬃce; therefore, the purpose of establishing a multi-scale expression framework for railway spatial information from 2D to 3D is to ensure maximum utilization of data while eliminating unnecessary data interference because higher levels of details do not always lead to better analysis (Stoter, Arroyo Ohori, and Noardo 2021). According to the characteristics of railway projects, geology and terrain features are the basic components of the environment, whereas railway facilities are the subject of this project. Therefore, the multi-scale expression layer establishes a reasonable hierarchical structure according to these three entity types. As shown in Table 2, the 2D geological survey data at the LOD1 (Level of Details 1) were divided into reconnaissance, enhanced work, pre- liminary survey, and ﬁnal survey stages. Diﬀerent stages not only include the same type of survey data, such as engineering geological maps, but also reﬂect varying levels of geological information with corresponding scales. At the ﬁnal survey stage, the scale of the data is ﬂexible, based on speciﬁc survey requirements. For 3D geological data, LOD2 is mainly a type of 2.5D surface model for regional-scale geological modeling and LOD3 is a type of 3D solid model for geological BIM and geological voxel models. Table 3 illustrates the multi-LOD of the terrain and railway facility models. According to the diﬀerent stages of railway engineering from network planning to construction drawing design, Table 1. Spatiotemporal relationships among railway features. Relationship type Subdivided type Description of relationship Spatial relationship Topology Express the relationship among features, such as intersection, separation, and passing through Structure Arrangement and combination of features in space Measure Express quantitative metric relationships such as length, perimeter, area, and distance Temporal relationship Event Describe the temporal relationship of events in the process of space-time evolution, such as before, at the same time, and after Process Describe the temporal relationship of diﬀerent processes Change Describe the temporal relationship between the change of attribute and state of features Interactional relationship Coupling Reveal the mutual feedback mechanism and logical relationship among related features Chain eﬀect Reveal the transitive logical relationship among related elements Table 2. Geological data classiﬁcation and levels of detail. Data type LOD1 LOD2 LOD3 Geological data Reconnaissance stage Enhanced work stage Preliminary survey Final survey Surface model BIM Voxel 1:50,000–1:200,000 1:10,000–1:50,000 1:10,000–1:50,000 Flexible Regional geological map; engineering geological map; hydrogeological map; structure outline map; and geomorphic zoning map. INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF DIGITAL EARTH 1665

## Page 11

terrain data need to obtain DEM (Digital Elevation Model) with diﬀerent resolutions from LOD1 to LOD4 with corresponding scales. Railway facility entity objects have diﬀerent levels of information composition at diﬀerent scales. For instance, a 3D model of a bridge includes piers, supports, abut- ments, railings, and other components and their related information; nonetheless, a block model can be regarded as an independent object with no components. This is due to the spatial semantic hierarchical relationship of the entities in the physical world; in other words, they have natural multi-scale attributes. Because terrain models and railway facility models are composed of geometry and textures, as the spatial scale increases, a high resolution of the model is required in most situ- ations, and vice versa, which requires the model to have multiple levels of geometric and texture details. In general, the 2.5D/3D model of railway facilities can be divided into three categories from LOD1 to LOD4: central lines of track, GIS surface model, and BIM. According to ‘Railway Engineering Information Model Expression Standard’ issued by China Railway BIM Alliance (CRBIM 1003-2017 2017), railway project applies BIM of professional level; the level of geometric expression can be further divided depending on the diﬀerent application stages from L1 to L4 as shown in Table 4. A professional BIM of a railway project comprises a multiple component model, where the grade of geometric representation accuracy of the com- ponent model corresponds to the level of geometric expression from G1 to G4. Among them, G1 satisﬁes the geometric accuracy of symbolic identiﬁcation requirements, G2 represents rough identiﬁcation requirements such as space occupation, G3 represents real appearance, and G4 rep- resents high-precision identiﬁcation requirements such as structural construction. Remarkably, the grade of geometric accuracy matched the level of geometric expression in most cases. How- ever, depending on the complexity of the component objects, the geometric accuracy may upgrade or degrade at the same level of geometric expression. For example, tracks under L4 only require G3. The multi-scale representation layer fulﬁlls the construction, expression, and storage of multi- LOD geology, terrain, and railway facility data. In the process of survey, design, and construction of railway projects, owing to the complex environment and features, the information data obtained have signiﬁcant cross-scale characteristics and will continuously update during the entire construction process (e.g. geological data), which makes the representation of data have the characteristics of multi-scale and multi-precision. Therefore, the representation and storage of railway spatial features are carried out through semantic-based multi-LOD 3D entity objects and associated with the geometric layer to accomplish the representation of 3D entities at diﬀer- ent scales. 3.3. Geometry data This layer expresses the geometric characteristics of a 3D object, such as its position, size, and shape. It contains four types of geometric data features: points, curves, surfaces, and solids, each of which has diﬀerent geometric expression methods. As illustrated in Figure 3, the point object refers to a point that is associated with the 3D spatial coordinate system of BIM, CAD, and point cloud, and is used to conduct operations such as vector operations. The curve object represents the linear Table 3. Terrain/railway facility data classiﬁcation and level of detail. Data type LOD1 LOD2 LOD3 LOD4 Terrain model (DEM) Railway network planning Scheme comparison Preliminary design Construction drawing design 1:50,000 1:2000 1:2000–1:500 1:500 25 m-resolution DEM 2–1 m-resolution DEM 2–0.5 m-resolution DEM 0.5 m-resolution DEM Railway facility model Central lines of track GIS surface model BIM G1 G2 G3 G4 1666 H. LI ET AL.

## Page 12

characteristics of 3D entities (e.g. track, cable) that can be divided into ‘composite curve,’ ‘line string,’ and ‘parametric curve’; the parametric curve is able to represent more complex linear objects such as bridges and trains. The surface object includes ‘polygon surface,’ ‘composite surface,’ and ‘parametric surface.’ The polygon surface expresses basic 2.5D entities (e.g. subgrade), whereas the composite surface represents complicated entities that are composed of simple surface entities. The parametric surface comprises cylindrical, spherical, and ruled surfaces, and the typical use of parametric surfaces is the expression of tunnels. The solid object is composed by ‘composite solid’ and ‘parametric solid’; a bridge pier can be regarded as a solid since it is constituted by surfaces, while a train station can be regarded as a composite solid because it is divided by multiple indepen- dent geometry (solid) and connected by common surfaces. A parametric solid refers to a more com- plicated solid, such as a speciﬁc component of bridges or tunnels. The orderly combination and association of geometric data features enables the expression of complex feature entities in digital twin railways such as tunnels, bridges, and geological bodies. 3.4. Mechanism model The model refers to mechanism models, such as the slope stability, debris ﬂow, and dynamic models. A model represents a method to deal with a certain problem; it is a vessel that contains complicated relationships among multiple features; in other words, it includes specialized knowl- edge. During the entire life cycle of a digital twin railway, various application services at diﬀerent levels require the participation of models, such as early warning, prediction, and simulation of geo- logical disasters. In essence, it is the process of adopting diﬀerent types of models and combining various models on demand. Simultaneously, the mechanism model contains knowledge connec- tions among features. Therefore, through the classiﬁcation and integration of mechanism models, a model base is acquired that can supplement professional knowledge graphs. 3.5. Knowledge Exploring the interaction among railway space features to form domain knowledge graphs of diﬀer- ent professions, such as geological disaster knowledge graphs, engineering safety and quality knowl- edge graphs, and conducting semantic matching between multi-source data and entity features through knowledge graphs to achieve data-semantic alignment. It is arranged to collaborate with the mechanism models to guide the design of the optimal framework of the data structure. 4. Logical model and ontology model This section introduces an extensible logical model of multi-source data related to railway space features, and an ontology model of a digital twin railway is designed to demonstrate the signiﬁcant feature entities and their basic interactive relationships in railway space. 4.1. Logical model of railway entities Digital twin railways have multi-level and diversiﬁed in-depth applications such as problem diag- nosis, risk assessment, trend prediction, and emergency response, which play an important role in Table 4. BIM classiﬁcation and level of detail. BIM (Professional level) Application stage Component model (Geometric accuracy) Geometric requirements L1 Planning stage G1 5 m vertical interval L2 Engineering feasibility stage G1, G2 5–2 m vertical interval L3 Preliminary design G2, G3 5–2 m vertical interval L4 Construction drawing design G2, G3, G4 2–1 m vertical interval INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF DIGITAL EARTH 1667

## Page 13

ensuring the organic coordination of multi-level and diversiﬁed businesses in the process of railway planning, design, construction, operation, and maintenance management. In the other hand, rail- way spatiotemporal big data have the characteristics of multi-scale heterogeneous data. From the survey and design, construction, and construction to operation management, it includes high-pre- cision real-world 3D models, multi-resolution DEM/DOM (Digital Orthophoto Map)/DLG (Digi- tal Line Graphic), geological survey data, geological data during construction, special geological information data (such as airborne lidar data, hyperspectral/multispectral lithology interpretation data), multi-professional BIM/CAD design model data, geological disaster monitoring, and risk analysis of the entire area. In the face of more than 1 million railway spatiotemporal data entities, applications at diﬀerent levels need to extract corresponding data from the massive data and require chain of applications such as early warning/prediction, process simulation, and aid decision-mak- ing for emergency rescue of multiple types of geological disasters. It is necessary to traverse the entire data layer to extract relevant data, and then analyze the relationship among features to meet a series of in-depth application requirements, which will greatly reduce the performance and response time of the digital twin system. Therefore, establishing a logical relationship among the data in the data layer can provide an important basis for the eﬃcient organization and management of multi-source and multi-modal data of digital twin railways and improve the comprehensive ability of multi-level, diversiﬁed, and in-depth applications. The logical model is shown in Figure 5. 4.2. Ontology model of digital twin railway entities The purpose of a knowledge graph is to depict concepts/entities and their interrelationships in the real world, where the nodes represent concepts or entities, while the edges connecting each node represent the association between concepts/entities. The basic structure of a knowledge graph is the triplet of ‘entity-relationship-entity’ or ‘entity-attribute-attribute value,’ and entities are con- nected by edges to form a network structure. The architecture of a knowledge graph includes its own logical structure and the technical system used in its construction. The logical structure is further divided into the schema and data layers. The schema layer deﬁnes entities, their semantic relationships, and attribute relationships in a ‘top-down’ approach and ﬁnally forms an ontology model. The data layer collects and analyzes relevant data, and then uses appropriate methods to extract entities and their relationships, and ﬁnally realizes data storage and management. The digital twin railway knowledge graph covers knowledge graphs in many ﬁelds, such as the quality/safety/ progress of railway construction, the event can be the construction of tunnel, bridge, station, and so forth. Another sort of specialized knowledge graph mainly focuses on the domain of typical geologi- cal disasters, for example, landslide, debris ﬂow, and outburst of glacial lake, it provides the foun- dation of the applications for the prevention/prediction of geological disasters. This study adopts a top-down approach, pre-deﬁning the entities and their superclass/subclass relationships, semantic relationships, and spatiotemporal relationships in the schema layer to form a deﬁnite conceptual hierarchy and then constructs the digital twin railway ontology model as the basic framework of the domain knowledge graphs. Ontology determines the conceptual nodes in the knowledge graph and is an important foundation for the construction of domain knowledge graphs. In the chapter of conceptual model, this study has sorted out the seven feature types of railway space; com- bining with the description of their relationship, the ontology model of digital twin railway is shown in Figure 6. 5. Case study This study considers the early warning/prediction, process simulation, risk assessment, and emer- gency response of typical geological disasters – landslides in mountainous railways – as an example to construct a landslide domain knowledge graph. First, the landslide scene was analyzed, and the 1668 H. LI ET AL.

## Page 14

digital twin railway ontology model (Figure 6) was applied as the schema layer. Then, through the bottom-up approach, the data layer was ﬁlled with data and connected to the schema layer, and the multi-source data of the digital twin railway were used to extract entities and attribute values. The extracted entities, attributed values, and associations were knowledge-fused to form a knowledge graph, whereas nodes and edges were stored in the graph database. The knowledge graph shown in Figure 7 shows some nodes and their relationships. As shown in Figure 7, a landslide event is deﬁned as a node, and then a triplet of ‘disaster-preg- nancy environment,’ ‘inducing factor,’ and ‘disaster-bearing body’ is designed according to the characteristics of the landslide. The disaster-pregnancy environment refers to a geographical and geological environment that is inclined to the occurrence of a landslide, and a series of features strongly related to landslides on the surface and subsurface, including geological features (subsur- face) such as geological structure, stratigraphic lithology, hydrogeology, engineering geology, and geographic features (surface), such as location, topography, and land cover type. The inducing fac- tor refers to human engineering activities such as excavation, dynamite, drainage, impoundment and natural factors that are likely to initiate a landslide; natural factors, including meteorological factors, erosion, internal forces, blasting, excavation, and water storage; disaster-bearing bodies refer to entities that are easily aﬀected by landslide disasters, such as personnel, facilities, and eco- logical environment. In addition, there is a mutual feedback relationship among the triplets. The inducing factor aﬀects the disaster-pregnancy environment, which can lead to the occurrence of landslides, which is the external cause of the landslide event. The disaster-pregnancy environment is determined by its own natural characteristics; thus, it is an internal cause of landslide events. The disaster-bearing body is the bearer of the landslide and is directly or indirectly damaged by the dis- aster-pregnant environment and the landslide event. The mechanism model contains specialized knowledge in a certain ﬁeld. Considering landslide- related research, there are mechanism models such as slope stability models and discrete geotech- nical kinematics models. This implies abundant interaction relationships among entities, which is Figure 5. Uniﬁed modeling language (UML) diagram of railway space entity logical model. INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF DIGITAL EARTH 1669

## Page 15

the foundation of in-depth applications, such as prediction, process simulation, and risk assessment of landslides. In this knowledge graph, the mechanism model is designed as nodes on the relation- ship edges; as suitable data are input and after the calculation of the model, the outcome can be used by other related mechanism models until the end of the workﬂow. In addition, real-time monitoring data are the basis for landslide-related applications (Laurini, Servigne, and Noel 2005). In this knowledge graph, nodes for real-time disaster information data monitoring equipment were designed to connect with corresponding entities. The knowledge graph shows and expresses the basic spatiotemporal relationship among features of a landslide and provides a basic framework for an eﬃcient data storage structure, while the introduction of the mechanism model improves the capability of the landslide knowledge graph to explicitly express complicated relationships among features. Figure 8 shows a typical railway bridge engineering scenario in a high-altitude mountainous region. The excavation of tunnels and construction of bridges may damage the structural stability of the high and steep slopes and vegetation coverage of the mountain. The heavy rainfall and snow- fall events may lead to the occurrence of landslides. Considering the high altitude, the year-round snow accumulation on the mountaintops, as season changes (temperature changes), ice melting is another inducement of landslides. When a landslide occurs, the river can be blocked by falling deb- ris and soil, forming a barrier lake, which threatens settlements or facilities downstream of the river with ﬂooding. Furthermore, a long-term period of natural erosion and weathering is also an Figure 6. Partially ontology model of digital twin railway. 1670 H. LI ET AL.

## Page 16

incentive for landslides to occur. In addition, the excavation of long-distance tunnels produces a large amount of soil and debris, which may also induce landslides or mudslides under the inﬁltra- tion of rainwater. The landslide knowledge graph shows the interaction between railway entities and events as well as integrated related data (geographical and geological data) gathered by multi-sensor comprehensive exploration and dynamic observation developed by diﬀerent disci- pline such as remote sensing, hydrogeology, geophysics, geochemistry and so forth. It predeter- mine the geology condition factors and landform factors of disaster bearing body, which is able to support the relevant applications of landslides at a diﬀerent scale, for instance, the information such as position, gradient, slope orientation, and curvature can be adopted to analyze the circum- stances of landslide at a certain interested site, while information such as certain landform, geologic structure, stratum/lithology can be applied to analyze the scale and range of a potential landslide. As the monitoring data of sensors/monitors (water level indicator, displacement meter, Figure 7. Partially landslide knowledge graph. INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF DIGITAL EARTH 1671

## Page 17

Figure 8. Landslides scenario of Digital Twin railway supported by knowledge graph. 1672 H. LI ET AL.

## Page 18

osmometer, and so on) reach a certain threshold, a series of mechanism models will be introduced to demonstrate complicated relationships among entities, such as the slope stability model, debris ﬂow inﬁltration model, and landslide process simulation model. Based on the obtained results, a potential geological disaster chain can be further predicted and simulated using relevant mechan- ism models. 6. Conclusion This study proposes a novel spatiotemporal data model of ‘data-model-knowledge’ integrated rep- resentation for digital twin railways. Based on the analysis of railway space features, the model con- sists of semantic layer, multi-scale expression layer as well as ‘data-knowledge-model.’ The model determines the basic temporal and spatial relationships among railway space features and simul- taneously describes the complicated relationships among the features through mechanism models. The model adopts the fundamental principle of object-oriented modeling and combines a knowl- edge graph to explicitly represent the interaction relationships among entities. Considering the characteristics and multi-level applications of digital twin railways, the related 2D-3D data is expressed in multi-scale and multiple LOD. In addition, by analyzing the types of important fea- tures of railway spaces and their basic temporal and spatial relationships, a digital twin railway ontology model was constructed, which provided a schema layer for building a domain knowledge graph with a bottom-up method to depict more detailed temporal relationships, space relationships, interaction relationships, and spatiotemporal evolution processes of entities. Lastly, considering landslides as an example in the case study, applying strongly correlated features and their inter- relationships, a landslide knowledge graph was established for in-depth applications of digital twin railways, such as early warning/forecasting, process simulation, risk assessment, and emer- gency response. The knowledge graph explicitly represents the relationships among features of a typical mountainous landslide disaster scene, as well as the integration of mechanism models and access to real-time disaster monitoring data. Future research should further verify the applicability of the model for the digital twin railway according to various application requirements, providing a more eﬃcient database structure and an enhanced description of the spatiotemporal relationship of features to achieve the accurate mapping of the entire life cycle of the digital twin railway in the virtual space. Disclosure statement No potential conﬂict of interest was reported by the author(s). Funding This paper was supported by the Project of the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant Number 41941019. This paper was supported by the Open Fund of Key Laboratory of Urban Land Resources Monitoring and Simulation, Ministry of Natural Resources under Grant Number KF-2021-06-033. Data availability statement Data not available due to legal restrictions. References Aggarwal, Charu C. 2011. “An Introduction to Social Network Data Analytics.” In Social Network Data Analytics, edited by Charu C. Aggarwal, 1–15. New York: Springer. INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF DIGITAL EARTH 1673

## Page 19

Apputhurai, Pragalathan, and Alec G. Stephenson. 2013. “Spatiotemporal Hierar-chical Modelling of Extreme Precipitation in Western Australia Using Anisotro-pic Gaussian Random Fields.” Environmental and Ecological Statistics 20 (4): 667–677. doi:10.1007/s10651-013-0240-9. Bach, Benjamin, Pierre Dragicevic, Daniel Archambault, Christophe Hurter, and Sheelagh Carpendale. 2017. “A Descriptive Framework for Temporal Data Visualizations Based on Generalized Space-Time Cubes.” Computer Graphics Forum 36 (6): 36–61. doi:10.1111/cgf.12804. Beard, Kate. 2006. “Modeling Change in Space and Time: An Event Based approach.” In Innovations in GIS: Dynamic and Mobile GIS: Investigating Change in Space and Time, edited by Jane Drummond, Roland Billen, Elsa João, and David Forrest, 55–74. Boca Raton: CRC Press. Camossi, Elena, Mario Bertolotto, and Elisa Bertino. 2006. “A Multigranular Object-Oriented Framework Supporting Spatio-Temporal Granularity Conversions.” International Journal of Geographical Information Science 20 (5): 511–534. doi:10.1080/13658810600607451. CRBIM 1003-2017. 2017. Railway Engineering Information Model Expression Standard. Beijing: China Railway BIM Alliance. Ding, Yulin, Zhaowen Xu, Qing Zhu, Hankan Li, Yan Luo, Ying Bao, Lingju-n Tang, and Sen Zeng. 2022. “Integrated Data-Model-Knowledge Representatio-n for Natural Resource Entites.” Inernational Journal of Digital Earth 15 (1): 653–678. doi:10.1080/17538947.2022.2047802. Elliot, Teresa. 2019. “7 Ways Cities Beneﬁt from Digital Twins.” The GIM International, September 24. https://www. gim-international.com/case-study/seven-ways-cities-beneﬁt-from-digital-twins. Erkoyuncu, John A, Iñigo Fernández del Amo Blanco, Dedy Ariansyah, Domi-nik Bulka, Rok Vrabič, and Rajkumar Roy. 2020. “A Design Framework for Adaptive Digital Twins.” CIRP Annals-Manufacturing Technology 69 (1): 145–148. doi:10.1016/j.cirp.2020.04.086. Huang, Runfei, and Zhongren Peng. 2008. “A Spatiotemporal Data Model for Dynamic Transit Networks.” International Journal of Geographical Information Science 22: 527–545. doi:10.1080/13658810701492399. Jabri, Sana, EL Miloudi EL Koursi, Thomas Bourdeaud’huy, and Etienne Lem-aire. 2010. “European Railway Trﬃc Management System Validation Using UML/Petri Nets Modelling Strategy.” European Transport Research Review 2 (2): 113–128. http://link.springer.com/journal/12544. Körner, Christine, May Michael, and Stefan Wrobel. 2012. “Spatiotemporal Modeling and Analysis-Introduction and Overview.” KI-Künstliche Intelligenz 26 (3): 215–221. Kraak, Menno-Jan. 2003. “The Space-Time Cube Revisited from a Geovisualizati-on Perspective.” Proceedings of 21st International Cartographic Conference, 1988-1996. Durban, South Africa. http://www.itc.nl/library/ Papers_2003/art_proc/kraak.pdf. Laurini, Robert, Sylvie Servigne, and Guillaume Noel. 2005. “Soft Real-Time GIS for Disaster Monitoring.” In Geo- information for Disaster Management, edited by Peter Oosterom, Siyka Zlatanova, and Elfriede M. Fendel, 465– 479. Heidelberg: Springer. Li, Deren. 2009. “An Overview of Earth Observation and Geospatial Information Service.” In Geospatial Technology for Earth Observation, edited by Deren Li, Jie Shan, and Jianya Gong, 1–25. New York: Springer. Pelekis, Nikos, Babis Theodoulidis, Ioannis Kopanakis, and Yannis Theodoridis. 2004. “Literature Review of Spatio- Temporal Database Models.” The Knowledge Engineering Review 19 (03): 235–274. doi:10.1017/S0269888904000 13X. Stoter, Jantien, Ken Arroyo Ohori, and Francesca Noardo. 2021. “Digital Twins: A Comprehensive Solution or Hopeful Vision?” The GIM International, October 4. https://www.gim-international.com/content/article/ digital-twins-a-comprehensive-solution-or-hopeful-vision. Tao, Fei, Fangyuan Sui, Ang Liu, Qinglin Qi, Meng Zhang, Boyang Song, Zi-rong Guo, Stephen C. Y. Lu, and Andrew Y. C. Nee. 2018. “Digital Twin Driven Product Design Framework.” International Journal of Production Research 57 (1): 1–19. doi:10.1080/00207543.2018.1443229. Tomiyama, Tetsuo, Eric Lutters, Rainer Stark, and Michael Abramovici. 2019. “Development Capabilities for Smart Products.” CIRP Annals 68 (2): 727–750. doi:10.1016/j.cirp.2019.05.010. Torrens, Paul M. 2009. “Process Models and Next-Generation Geographic Information Technology.” In GIS Best Practices: Essays on Geography and GIS, edited by ESRI, 63–75. Redlands: ESRI. Worboys, Michael F. 2005. “Event-oriented Approaches to Geographic Phenomena.” International Journal of Geographical Information Science 19 (1): 1–28. doi:10.1080/13658810412331280167. Xia, Huiqiong, Deren Li, and Zhengfeng Shao. 2007. “Research and Implementation of Event-Based Spatio-Temporal Data Model with Integrated Vector and Raster Data Structure.” Proceedings of International Symposium on Multi-spectral Image Processing and Pattern Recognition, Wuhan, China, November. doi:10.1117/12.748766. Xue, Cunjin, Chenghu Zhou, Fenzhen Su, and Jiong Xie. 2010. “Research on Process-Oriented Spatio-Temporal Data Model.” Acta Geodaetica et Cartogra-phica Sinica 39 (1): 95–101. Yuan, May. 2001. “Representing Complex Geographic Phenomena in GIS.” Car-tography and Geographic Information Science 28 (2): 83–96. doi:10.1559/152304001782173718. 1674 H. LI ET AL.

## Page 20

Yuan, May, and Kathleen S. Hornsby. 2011. “Data Modeling Approaches for Geographic Dynamics Understanding.” In Computation and Visualization for Understanding Dynamics in Geographic Domains: A Research Agenda, edi- ted by May Yuan and Kathleen S. Hornsby, 31–46. Boca Raton: CRC Press. Zheng, Liang, Deren Li, and Shuangfeng Wei. 2006. “The Application and Research of an Improved Event-Based Spatio-Temporal Data Model.” Proceedings of Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers (SPIE) Conference Series. doi: 10.1117/12.712652. Zhu, Qing, and Mingyuan Hu. 2010. “Semantics-based 3D Dynamic Hierarchical House Property Model.” International Journal of Geographical Information Science 24 (2): 165–188. doi:10.1080/13658810802443440. Zhu, Qing, Liguo Zhang, Yulin Ding, Han Hu, Xuming Ge, Mingwei Liu, and Wei Wang. 2022. “Form Real 3D Modeling to Digital Twin Modeling.” Acta Geodaetica et Cartographica Sinica 51 (6): 1040–1049. INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF DIGITAL EARTH 1675
