# RISK VIP Evaluation of Flood Risk on the French Railway Network Using an Innovative GIS Approach
> **Source**: `RISK VIP Evaluation of Flood Risk on the French Railway Network Using an Innovative GIS Approach.pdf`
> **Pages**: 10

---

## Page 1

a Corresponding author: mark.cheetham@sncf.fr   RISK VIP: Evaluation of Flood Risk on the French Railway Network Using  an Innovative GIS Approach  Mark CHEETHAM1,a, François CHIROUZE1 and Laurent BREDIER1   1SNCF Réseau, Infrastructure, Tracks and Environment Department, La Plaine St Denis, 93574, France  Abstract. Flooding can have significant direct and indirect negative effects on a railway network affecting both  infrastructure and rail operations.  Such impacts include the delaying or cancelling of train services, damage to  railway structures or the implementation of costly maintenance and monitoring programs to ensure the safety and  performance of the railway system.  Identifying sections of railway line at risk from flooding allows appropriate  actions to be targeted at specific areas and contributes to an effective asset management plan. Flooding of railway  infrastructure can have numerous sources including surface water run-off, insufficient capacity of hydraulic structures  or the inundation of embankments located in floodplains.  Consequences of flooding include the destabilisation of  structures (surface erosion of embankments or the undermining of bridge foundations), differential settlement of  structures and damage to the track structure. This paper details an innovative approach developed at the SNCF using a  Geographic Information System (GIS) model to identify zones of the railway network at risk of different types of  flooding.  The GIS model RiskVIP has been constructed through the assessment of three distinct components of risk:  Vulnerabilityssessment of the susceptibility of the railway infrastructure to flood conditions), Intensity	  of a catchment to generate a flood flow), Probability		  	  	 	 		       Inte has been characterised in the model by the physical properties of the  catchment intercepted by the railway line (surface area of the catchment, slope and land cover characteristics) and  Vulnerability by the infrastructure itself (type, geometry and the presence of hydraulic structures).  In order to  evaluate its efficiency at identifying sites at risk of flooding, the model has been tested in the region of Languedoc- Roussillon in France on a reach of over 380km of railway line.  In order to charact	  probability data relating to important historic rainfall events have been used in the model against which known incidents on the  railway line have been subsequently analysed.  Initial results are very positive with a high level of capture of known  incidents by the model in relation to the type of flooding recorded.  The model RiskVIP allows the evaluation of flood  risk to be undertaken at different scales and will aid in targeting precise reaches of railway line to be studied in more  detail.  It is a tool which can aid in the management of flood risk on the railway network, optimising for example the  maintenance program of drainage structures, ensuring monitoring and inspections are targeted at problem reaches,  identifying areas where civil works are necessary and improving the overall resilience of the railway system.      1 Introduction  Flooding can have significant direct and indirect negative  effects on a railway network affecting both rail operations  and infrastructure.  Such impacts include the delaying or  cancelling of train services, causing damage to railway  structures or the necessity to implement costly  maintenance and monitoring programs to ensure the  safety and performance of the system.  Identifying  sections of railway line at risk from flooding allows  appropriate actions to be targeted at specific portions of  line and contributes to an effective asset management  plan.  The present paper outlines the approach taken to identify  and characterize the risks relating to flooding on the rail  network in France.  The initial study area covers the  region of Languedoc-Roussillon in the south of France  (Figure 1).  The study is currently at preliminary risk  assessment stage.   Due to the large area under consideration (nearly 400km  of line), it was decided to undertake the evaluation of  flood risk using a Geographical Information System  (GIS) approach.  The following chapters present the way  the model was conceived and constructed and show the  initial results of the project in terms of identifying  earthwork structures in the rail network exposed to flood  risk and also how this risk is qualified in terms of type of  flooding  and  the  consequences  for  the  railway  infrastructure.                  DOI: 10.1051/ ,  6 E3S Web of Conferences e3sconf/201 FLOODrisk 2016 - 3rd European Conference on Flood Risk Management  7 0710004 10004 (2016)   © The Authors, published by EDP Sciences. This is an open access article distributed under  the terms of the Creative   Commons Attribution  License 4.0 (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

## Page 2

Figure 1- Study Area (Languedoc-Roussillon)  2 Flood risk management  2.1 Flood risk management approach  The railway network is exposed to many forms of  flooding and the management of flood risk is the  responsibility of the owner and/ or operator.  In all forms  of risk management, a procedure for understanding the  risks affecting the system being studied is required,  which can often require several stages to fully appreciate  the sources and consequences of the different types of  risk.  The diagram presented in Figure 2, proposed in the  ISO 31000 document1, presents the stages involved in a  detailed risk management process from establishing the  context of the risk assessment through to proposing a  series of options for reducing and monitoring risk.    Figure 2  Risk management process (NF EN 31010)  The following sections detail how the process presented  in has been applied throughout this project.     2.2 Definitions of risk   Numerous definitions exist for what constitutes a  risk and, in establishing the context of a project involving  an analysis of risks, it is important to determine what is  understood by risk and the components of risk that allow  a satisfactory evaluation to be made.  ISO Guide 73,  Management of risk  VocabularyErreur ! Source du renvoi  introuvable. 	 	    !effect of uncertainty on  objectives" #    	  	 	 from the  expected (positive or negative) and objectives can have  different aspects such as financial, health and safety and  environmental goals.    Risk is often expressed in terms of a combination of the  likelihood that an event will occur (probability) and a  characterization of the consequences of the event:  Risk = Probability x Consequence  #   !Consequence"	 the outcome of an event affecting objectives and  	    	Intensity    Vulnerability      #	 	    presented in this paper, is a railway infrastructure:  Consequence = Vulnerability x Intensity  The definition of risk can therefore be expressed through  the evaluation of three components (RiskVIP model):  Risk = Vulnerability x Intensity x Probability  2.3 Flooding in the context of the railway  network   A railway network is a complex system of different  and interacting infrastructure including earthworks, civil  structures, track structure, signaling and catenary  installations  and  rail  operations  (train  services,  management of stations).  For the purposes of the current  project, the assessment of risks is limited to earthwork  structures although the method described here could be  adapted at a later stage to integrate other elements of the  system.  Earthworks are present throughout the entire railway  network in France (30000km of line) and can be classed  into one of three main categories:   Embankments : where imported material is used  in the construction of the line   Cuttings : where material is excavated during the  construction of the line                  DOI: 10.1051/ ,  6 E3S Web of Conferences e3sconf/201 FLOODrisk 2016 - 3rd European Conference on Flood Risk Management  7 0710004 10004 (2016) 2

## Page 3

 Mixed : a combination of cuttings and  embankments  Much of the network in France was constructed in the  second half of the 19th Century and is consequently over  100 years old.  Railway infrastructure has historically  been constructed along valley floors taking advantage of  reduced slopes and as such is regularly located in  floodplains of watercourses.   In addition, due to the  linear nature of a railway line, the network often crosses  talwegs and other non-permanent or minor watercourses  where provision has to be made in the design of the  infrastructure for temporary flows arising from surface  water runoff from these catchments.  As such, the railway  network in France is subject to periodic flooding which  can have varying degrees of impact ranging from damage  to infrastructure or delays for train circulations.    In addition to the problem of flood risk, the network is  exposed to a number of other natural hazards such as  rockfalls and landslides with an average of 85 incidents  per year on the French rail network, of which  approximately 25% are associated with flooding. 2.4 Risk Identification (Flood risk)   In the context of the preliminary evaluation of flood  risk undertaken in the study area of Languedoc- Roussillon, the first stage requires the definition and  identification of flood risk sources.  A flood can be  	   !temporary covering of land by water  outside its normal confines"3.  In the characterization of  flood risk, the sources of flooding should be clearly  identified at the outset to ensure that the consequences of  the event can be properly evaluated.  As was indicated in  the previous section a linear railway system is subject to  different types of flooding ranging from long duration but  low intensity events to flash floods of very short duration  but of high intensity and with often very different  consequences.  Figure 3 highlights two examples of flood  risk to which a railway infrastructure can be exposed.     Loss of ballast following the overtopping of an  embankment  Debris on a railway line following a mudslide  Figure 3  Examples of different types of flood risk on a  railway network  The following main sources of flooding were highlighted  during the risk identification stage:   Watercourses    Surface water runoff   Coastal flooding   Groundwater   Events caused by third parties (pipe rupture, dam  breaks, etc.)    These can be further divided into subgroups to include  for the presence of debris in the flow and sediment  transport for example.  2.5 Risk Analysis   Although the clear definition of the components of  risk allows the assessor to subdivide a risk into  measurable parameters, it is important to understand and  communicate the limits and uncertainty associated with  each element.  The three components of risk used in our  study translate as follows:   Probability = Return period of the initiating  event   Intensity =  Capacity  of  a  catchment  to  generate a flow   Vulnerability =  Capacity  of  the  railway  infrastructure to resist the intercepted flow and  thus avoid damage to the structure.  In this study,  this parameter is predominantly evaluated using  the geometrical configuration of the earthwork  structure  It should be reiterated that the current paper describes the  method undertaken at a preliminary risk assessment                  DOI: 10.1051/ ,  6 E3S Web of Conferences e3sconf/201 FLOODrisk 2016 - 3rd European Conference on Flood Risk Management  7 0710004 10004 (2016) 3

## Page 4

stage.  One of the main objectives of the study is to  identify the key parameters which have a role in  generating flood risk, avoiding where possible the over  complexification of the exercise by, for example,  integrating a large number of input criteria to undertake  the evaluation.  It is envisaged that the results of this  preliminary assessment will be used in a more detailed  analysis during later stages of the project.  Figure 4  presents the three components of risk.  Due to the different types of flood risk under  consideration, the large study area (400km of railway  line) and the requirement to analyze a large quantity of  information, it was decided at an early stage in the project  to use of a GIS based model.  It was decided to group the different sources of flood risk  identified in Chapter 2.4 into four main categories:   Catchments of surface area <1km²   Catchments of surface area 1-10km²   Catchments of surface area >10km²   Catchments for which flood modelling scenarios  were readily available (fluvial and maritime)  Flood sources associated with small catchments are  typically short duration surface water runoff events and  mudslides whereas the larger catchments (<10km²) will  tend to generate longer duration events.  This  characterization of flood risk in terms of catchment size  is the first stage of the flood risk evaluation process and  is subsequently refined by integrating other factors in the  later stages.  The grouping of flood risk sources in terms  of catchment size allows different flood sources to be  mapped in the GIS model.   Although the model has initially been tested on the region  of Languedoc-Roussillon, the intention is that the method  should be able to be used for the whole of the railway  network in France.               Figure 4  RISK VIP model                    DOI: 10.1051/ ,  6 E3S Web of Conferences e3sconf/201 FLOODrisk 2016 - 3rd European Conference on Flood Risk Management  7 0710004 10004 (2016) 4

## Page 5

	  Component   The  probability  component  of  the  model  represents the likelihood that the initiating event will  occur and is expressed in terms of annual probability of  occurrence (%).  The analysis of the probability of an  event occurring also takes into account the life  expectancy of the infrastructure typically fixed at a  duration of 50 years.  This results in relatively rare events  becoming probable when considered over the lifetime of  the structure.  For example, the annual probability of the  1 in 100 year flood event is approximately 1% but  considered over the life duration of the structure, the  probability of this frequency of event occurring rises to  nearly 40%.    It should be noted that the region of Languedoc- Roussillon lies in the Mediterranean climatic region and  as such experiences very high intensity, low duration  rainfall events referred to as Cevennols events, often in  the autumn months when air temperatures start to fall and  the sea temperature remains relatively high.  Rainfall  depths of 200mm in 24 hours are not uncommon.  Due to  the very localized nature of these events, it is often very  small catchments which are affected.  Flows generated by  these small catchments can reach 20-50m3/s/km².   At preliminary risk assessment stage, the evaluation of  the probability of an event is based on historical rainfall  records or from hydraulic modelling undertaken in the  case of more important watercourses.   Component   Flood risk mapping has been undertaken on a  limited number of watercourses in the Languedoc- Roussillon region as part of the French national program  to identify flood risk areas (Territoires à Risque  	 	  5).  Flood mapping has so far been  limited to watercourses where there is a risk to local  economies and tends to be associated with rivers flowing  through major conurbations.  For the watercourses where  the maps have been produced, these have been obtained  and used in the GIS model as they represent the most  detailed information relating to flood risk currently  available (Figure 5).       Figure 5  Example of a TRI flood map showing flood  depths    In general terms, maps have been produced for frequent  (10-30 year return period), medium (100-300 year return  period) and extreme (1000 year) flood events.     Where flood plain maps are not available, which covers  most of the catchments intercepted by the railway line in  the study area, a different approach was required to  identify the sources of flooding and to evaluate the  hazard they represent to the railway infrastructure.  In  order to construct the GIS model, a digital terrain model  (DTM) was used with a pixel size of 30m².  Considering  the important length of railway to be analyzed in the  study area, this resolution of DTM was deemed  sufficient.  For the three catchment sizes detailed previously,  decision trees were constructed with a view to  characterizing each pixel in the model taking into account  two driving parameters:   Land cover    Topography (Relief)  The Corine Land Cover database (CLC, 20065) was used  to develop the first part of the decision tree.  The 44 land  cover classes of the CLC were organized into five groups  based on the types of land cover and flooding typically  experienced in the Languedoc-Roussillon region:   Woodland and garrigue (scrub)   Prairies   Non-permanent/ rotational crops   Vines   Urban areas                    DOI: 10.1051/ ,  6 E3S Web of Conferences e3sconf/201 FLOODrisk 2016 - 3rd European Conference on Flood Risk Management  7 0710004 10004 (2016) 5

## Page 6

Three slope classes were used in the decision tree to  represent in general terms a change in hydraulic regime  (<1%, 1-$%  &$% '	 	   Intensity 		 tree, a qualitative approach was adopted for evaluating  the level of intensity corresponding to each class of land  cover and topography value.  Each pixel in the DMT was  subsequently classed as having an intensity value of  (# )	  *	 	 	    +    required identifying each catchment intercepted by the  railway line, calculating its size followed by undertaking  a qualitative interpretation of its intensity (Figure 6).        Figure 6  Process of classifying the « Intensity »  parameter for each catchment                      DOI: 10.1051/ ,  6 E3S Web of Conferences e3sconf/201 FLOODrisk 2016 - 3rd European Conference on Flood Risk Management  7 0710004 10004 (2016) 6

## Page 7

The last stage (3) was repeated for the three catchment  sizes described previously.  3	 Component   Vulnerability 		   complex of the three elements of the risk analysis to  evaluate, requiring a comprehensive understanding of  railway earth structures, their level of exposure to  flooding and their functioning within the railway system  as a whole.  Numerous factors influence the sensibility of  an earth structure to flooding including its geometric  characteristics (height, base and crest width and  embankment slopes for example), the material used in its  construction and any flood protection measures that are in  place.  ,#    , a decision  tree was constructed to evaluate the level of vulnerability  of the earth structures in the study area.  The three main  parameters included in the decision tree include type of  earth structure, its geometry and determining whether a  hydraulic structure is present at the point where the  railway intercepts the catchment.    2.5.4 Preliminary Results   Using historical known flooding incidents on the  railway line in the region of Languedoc-Roussillon (143  total), the GIS model was tested to evaluate its efficiency  at identifying areas at risk from flash flooding associated  with sediment transport and mudflows.  These types of  events are typically associated with small catchments  draining steep slopes, two parameters included in the  Intensity		   Of the twenty four incidents of this type registered in the  study area, twenty one were correctly located at the  intersection point of a catchment basin with an area less

-.#	  #	 !*	" average catchment intensity measure.  Considering all of  the sites with a known history of incidents in the region,  /0% # 	!1"70% !)  " #	   7% 	  !(# 		 "    #    	 	 results for the validation of the approach in evaluating the   IntensityVulnerability  2.6 Risk Evaluation   As has been previously indicated, evaluation of the  level of flood risk on the network in the region of  Languedoc-Roussillon requires the combination of the

   1		  8 	   9		 ,  				   considering flood risk at a regional level, the model  allows the sites most sensitive to flooding to be identified  (i.e. where the consequences of flooding are likely to be  the most significant).  A matrix for prioritizing the most  sensitive sites to be studied in more detail at during the  later stages of the project is proposed in Figure 7 (P1  having the highest priority, P4 the lowest).  Vulnerability  Intensity  High  Medium  Low  Vulnerable  P1  P1  P2  Moderate  P1  P2  P3  Low vulnerability   P2  P3  P4  Figure 7  9		 	 	+ 8 	  1		  :;  A test of the efficiency of this matrix to identify sensitive  sites to flooding has been undertaken by comparing the  total number of historical incidents in the region in terms     	 	      Intensity Vulnerability 	  , seen from Figure 8, nearly 60% of historical incidents  occurred in sections of line evaluated as Priority 1  (highest priority) and over 85% fall in the Priority 1 and 2  categories.                                         DOI: 10.1051/ ,  6 E3S Web of Conferences e3sconf/201 FLOODrisk 2016 - 3rd European Conference on Flood Risk Management  7 0710004 10004 (2016) 7

## Page 8

Vulnerability  Intensity  Not captured  by the model  Total  High  Medium  Low    Vulnerable  29  44  -  11  73  Moderate  12  38  -  50  Low vulnerability  -  9  -  9  Not captured    11  Total  41  91  -  11  143  Figure 8  Evaluation of the consequences of flooding  A number of historical rainfall events that resulted in  incidents on the railway line were studied to better         and its relation  to the other two components of risk described previously.   An example is the event of 11 April 2002 (Figure 9),  which although not being exceptional in terms of rainfall  depths for the region of Languedoc-Roussillon (150mm  in 24 hours), resulted in a number of flooding incidents  on the railway line.  A spatial analysis of the event  indicates that, on a relatively homogenous portion of line,  certain sites were at higher risk than others having  received less rainfall, all other parameters within the  model being equivalent.      Figure 9  Rainfall event of 11 april 20026     Probability 	    development within the model and should be better  characterized during the next stage of the project.   Developments to the probability component include a  more detailed analysis of return period estimation at a  local scale (1km² using the method developed by  IRSTEA, SHYREG) and undertaking a spatial analysis of  historic rainfall events.  This will lead to an improved       characterization of flood risk to earthwork structures in  the study area and on the rail network as a whole.  2.7 Risk Reduction   The final stage of the risk management process is  the identification of risk reduction measures.  Due to the  project currently being at preliminary risk assessment  stage, it is premature to commence proposing remediation  measures without a more detailed risk assessment  undertaken at a more local scale. This is the objective of  the next stage of the project.    3 Perspectives   Preliminary results of the RiskVIP method are  promising and appear to show that the model accurately  locates earthwork structures which are sensitive to  flooding and characterize the consequences of flooding  events.  A high proportion of historical flood events and  incidents are precisely located by the model and the  gravity of the consequences is properly characterized.  As has been previously indicated, there remain some  	     Probability which are to be undertaken in the next stage of the  project.  Improvements are also envisaged in terms of  quality of the data in the model, notably the resolution of  the DTM which will be reduced to 5m² during the next  stage.  It is expected that this will improve the mapping  	   Intensity  The model will be used in the next phase of the project to  develop the work already undertaken to evaluate how the  impact of changes in the catchments intercepted by the  railway network have impacted the overall level of flood  risk on the railway network.  Measuring the impact of  changes in catchment characteristics will have an  	   	  	       Intensity which can subsequently be converted into the component  ProbabilityAs has been previously indicated, much of  the railway network in France was constructed during the  second half of the 19th Century and so is already over 100  years old.  Since the original design and construction of  the network, significant changes to certain catchments                  DOI: 10.1051/ ,  6 E3S Web of Conferences e3sconf/201 FLOODrisk 2016 - 3rd European Conference on Flood Risk Management  7 0710004 10004 (2016) 8

## Page 9

has been experienced, particularly due to urban expansion  but also due to changes in agricultural practices.   Expansion of urban areas tends to reduce the infiltration  capacity of natural catchments which can lead to  increased rates of surface water runoff, shorter time to  peak durations and higher peak flows if no mitigation  measures are adopted.  Assuming there have been no  changes to the railway infrastructure to accommodate  these changes, it can be assumed that, for an equivalent  rainfall event, the probability of exceedance of the  capacity of hydraulic structures will be greater in those  catchments where significant changes have taken place.   Using historical data from the CLC database, the model is  used to initially identify where changes have taken place  in the region and then evaluate the impact of these  changes.  The CLC database has three years of  evaluation, 1990, 2000 and 2006.  As can be seen from  Figure 10, the model is used initially to detect important  changes in land use between 1990 and 2006 and then  evaluate its impact (positive or negative) in terms of  runoff generation.  In the example provided, a catchment  has been heavily modified through the construction of  houses on agricultural land, a comparison of aerial  photographs taken from 1990 and 2006 confirm the  changes.          Figure 10  Example of detection by the model of changes in catchment characteristics and evaluation of their impact.  Through the construction of the Risk VIP model, it  should also be possible to evaluate how climate change  could affect the risk of flooding to the railway  infrastructure in the future.    4 Conclusions   This paper has presented an innovative approach to  flood risk assessment through the use of a GIS model in  the context of earthwork structures on a rail network,  which can subsequently be used in the overall system of  flood risk management in the next stages of the project.  The model is adapted for large scale flood risk analysis,  at a national or regional scale and identifies key sections  of the network susceptible to be at risk from flooding.    The use of existing hydraulic modelling results  where these exist, decision trees to identify catchments  with the potential for generating high, medium and low  intensity flood events and a comprehensive understanding  of railway infrastructure to undertake the vulnerability  assessment allows the railway infrastructure manager to  prioritize sites to be studied in more detail in the later  phases of the project.  Historical records of incidents  relating to flooding on the rail network in the region of  Languedoc-Roussillon originating from flooding confirm  the presence of flood risk on a high percentage of sites  identified as at risk by the model.  In addition, the  approach of flood risk based on catchment size aids in the  characterization of the consequences of flood risk  including long duration low intensity floods and more  rapid high intensity flood events.                  DOI: 10.1051/ ,  6 E3S Web of Conferences e3sconf/201 FLOODrisk 2016 - 3rd European Conference on Flood Risk Management  7 0710004 10004 (2016) 9

## Page 10

5 References  1. ISO31000, January 2010, Risk management   Principles and guidelines  2. FD ISO Guide 73, December 2009, Management du  risque, Vocabulaire  3. FLOODsite report No.T32-04-01, March 2005,  Language of Risk  Project Definitions  4. www.developpement durable.gouv.fr (Ministere de  ?	  @  @    ?	)?@@?  5. www.statistiques.developpement-durable.gouv.fr  )		   ?	  @  @ ?	)?@@?  6. www.pluiesextremes.meteo.fr                    DOI: 10.1051/ ,  6 E3S Web of Conferences e3sconf/201 FLOODrisk 2016 - 3rd European Conference on Flood Risk Management  7 0710004 10004 (2016) 10
